id	coder	content_type	culture	extract	Acquired_ability	Afterlife	Age	Cause	Cause_type	Childhood_adversity	Childhood_adversity_type	Conflict	Conflict_description	Cultural_evaluation	Emic_Etic_Model	Evidence_Mental_Illness	Evidence_of_burdensomeness	Family_History_MI	Family_History_SB	Fantasy_irrational_thought	Fitness_threat	Forgiveness	High_RP	Hoplessness	Knowledge_type_Model	Lethality_n_attempt	Low_RP	Low_level_thinking	Low_self_esteem	MI_family_member	MI_type_family	MI_type_victim	Married	Method	Motive	Motive_better_off_kin	Motive_escape	Motive_harm_others	Motive_leverage	Motive_make_others_better_off	Outcome_better_off	Outcome_change	Outcome_others_harmed	Painful_affect	Passivity	Reduced_inhibition	SA_age	SA_relationship	SA_sex	SB_family_member	Sense_of_burdensomeness	Sex	Target	Target_fitness	Thwarted_belongingness	Traumatic_events	Type_of_SB	age_exact	aggression	ailment_type	ailments	behavioral	case_score	childhood_adversity_description	cognitive	concomitants	dependents	emotional	evidence_hoplessness	family_history	funerary_body	funerary_rites	group_size	mental_illness	outcome	phys_ailments	powerlessness	public_private	ritualized	social_isolation	social_status	type_of_account
1	admin	Case	Akan	At first the Juabens were so successful that [p. 55] many of the Kumasi captains, among whom were the Adumhene, the Anantahene, and the Nseniahene of Kumasi, blew themselves up.	Evidence for	x	adult	At first the Juabens were so successful that [p. 55] many of the Kumasi captains, among whom were the Adumhene, the Anantahene, and the Nseniahene of Kumasi, blew themselves up.	military defeat	No evidence	na	Evidence for	At first the Juabens were so successful that [p. 55] many of the Kumasi captains, among whom were the Adumhene, the Anantahene, and the Nseniahene of Kumasi, blew themselves up.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	blew_up	x		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	adult	outgroup		na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence against		war,combat,witness violence,perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	unknown	x	At first the Juabens were so successful that [p. 55] many of the Kumasi captains, among whom were the Adumhene, the Anantahene, and the Nseniahene of Kumasi, blew themselves up.	x	x	not stated	many	x	x	x		public	unknown	No evidence		unknown
1	zgarfield	Case	Akan	At first the Juabens were so successful that [p. 55] many of the Kumasi captains, among whom were the Adumhene, the Anantahene, and the Nseniahene of Kumasi, blew themselves up.	Evidence for	x	adult	the Juabens were so successful 		No evidence	na	Evidence for	the Juabens were so successful 	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for		Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	blew_up	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	adult	outgroup	male	na	Evidence for	male		Evidence against	Evidence for	war,combat,witness violence,perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	combat	4	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	>2	x	x	x	Evidence for	public	na	No evidence		unknown
1	syme	Case	Akan	At first the Juabens were so successful that [p. 55] many of the Kumasi captains, among whom were the Adumhene, the Anantahene, and the Nseniahene of Kumasi, blew themselves up.																																No evidence				No evidence									na																												Evidence for				low	
2	admin	Cultural model	Akan	A defeated Ashanti captain was always expected to commit suicide. Death, to the Ashanti, was preferable to disgrace.	Evidence for	x	adult	A defeated Ashanti captain was always expected to commit suicide. Death, to the Ashanti, was preferable to disgrace.	military defeat	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Conflict with outgroup and ingroup: A defeated Ashanti captain was always expected to commit suicide. Death, to the Ashanti, was preferable to disgrace.	approvingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	avoid disgrace		Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence against		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	ingroup and outgroup	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence against		war,combat,witness violence,perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	6	x	x	x	unknown	A defeated Ashanti captain was always expected to commit suicide. Death, to the Ashanti, was preferable to disgrace.	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	avoid disgrace	x		public	yes	No evidence		na
2	zgarfield	Cultural model	Akan	A defeated Ashanti captain was always expected to commit suicide. Death, to the Ashanti, was preferable to disgrace.	Evidence for	x	adult			No evidence	na	Evidence for		approvingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence	Evidence for	war,combat,witness violence,perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	combat	x	x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	Evidence for	na	yes	Evidence for		
2	syme	Cultural model	Akan	A defeated Ashanti captain was always expected to commit suicide. Death, to the Ashanti, was preferable to disgrace.																																No evidence				No evidence																																										
3	admin	Case	Akan	As regards the suicide, the presumption was that he had killed himself because he had committed a sin which was a taboo and, instead of waiting to be tried by the central authority, had taken his own life. The dead body was tried again and found guilty. Where the motive was not known the sentence was: 'Whatever evil you did, since you did not bring it before the chief to be inquired into with a good hearing...then have we found you guilty.' The relatives, on behalf of the suicide, acknowledged the evil he had done. A sentence of death was duly passed and the dead body was beheaded. This put the community right again with the ancestors, and the evil spirit of the suicide (t[unavailable]fo sasa) would no longer disturb the living.	No evidence	This put the community right again with the ancestors, and the evil spirit of the suicide (t[unavailable]fo sasa) would no longer disturb the living.	unknown	the presumption was that he had killed himself because he had committed a sin which was a taboo and, instead of waiting to be tried by the central authority, had taken his own life.	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly,ambivalently	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	instead of waiting to be tried by the central authority, had taken his own life.		Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	the dead body was beheaded.	yes	1	x	The dead body was tried again and found guilty...The relatives, on behalf of the suicide, acknowledged the evil he had done. A sentence of death was duly passed and the dead body was beheaded. This put the community right again with the ancestors, and the evil spirit of the suicide (t[unavailable]fo sasa) would no longer disturb the living.	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	low	secondhand
3	zgarfield	Case	Akan	As regards the suicide, the presumption was that he had killed himself because he had committed a sin which was a taboo and, instead of waiting to be tried by the central authority, had taken his own life. The dead body was tried again and found guilty. Where the motive was not known the sentence was: 'Whatever evil you did, since you did not bring it before the chief to be inquired into with a good hearing...then have we found you guilty.' The relatives, on behalf of the suicide, acknowledged the evil he had done. A sentence of death was duly passed and the dead body was beheaded. This put the community right again with the ancestors, and the evil spirit of the suicide (t[unavailable]fo sasa) would no longer disturb the living.	No evidence	x	unknown			No evidence	na	No evidence		disapprovingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	because he had committed a sin which was a taboo and, instead of waiting to be tried by the central authority, had taken his own life	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	unknown	na	na	Evidence for	male		No evidence	Evidence for	unknown	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	A sentence of death was duly passed and the dead body was beheaded. 	yes	1	x	The dead body was tried again and found guilty.	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		unknown
3	syme	Case	Akan	As regards the suicide, the presumption was that he had killed himself because he had committed a sin which was a taboo and, instead of waiting to be tried by the central authority, had taken his own life. The dead body was tried again and found guilty. Where the motive was not known the sentence was: 'Whatever evil you did, since you did not bring it before the chief to be inquired into with a good hearing...then have we found you guilty.' The relatives, on behalf of the suicide, acknowledged the evil he had done. A sentence of death was duly passed and the dead body was beheaded. This put the community right again with the ancestors, and the evil spirit of the suicide (t[unavailable]fo sasa) would no longer disturb the living.																																No evidence				No evidence																																										
4	admin	Case	Akan	"it was that of telling or expecting the person found guilty to commit suicide.(42) The same Rev. Mader reports another case of ""carrying the corpse"", where the ""guilty person"" was a mother of eight children. Through fear of the government-since two soldiers happened to be in town-she was not lynched but socially ostracized. Everybody avoided her. Her relatives told her to take courage and kill herself. She even went to see the paramount chief to ask for her death, but was refused-again for fear of the Government. She was then taken into custody in the house of an elder. There the constant mockery so distressed her, that she finally asked permission to fetch firewood in the bush and there she hanged herself."	Evidence for	x	adult	it was that of telling or expecting the person found guilty to commit suicide...she was not lynched but socially ostracized. Everybody avoided her. Her relatives told her to take courage and kill herself...She was then taken into custody in the house of an elder. There the constant mockery so distressed her, that she finally asked permission to fetch firewood in the bush and there she hanged herself.	accus_commit wrongdo,rejection	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	hanging	x		Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence		Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	asked for her death	5	x	x	x	yes	distress	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	private	yes	Evidence for	low	secondhand
4	zgarfield	Case	Akan	"it was that of telling or expecting the person found guilty to commit suicide.(42) The same Rev. Mader reports another case of ""carrying the corpse"", where the ""guilty person"" was a mother of eight children. Through fear of the government-since two soldiers happened to be in town-she was not lynched but socially ostracized. Everybody avoided her. Her relatives told her to take courage and kill herself. She even went to see the paramount chief to ask for her death, but was refused-again for fear of the Government. She was then taken into custody in the house of an elder. There the constant mockery so distressed her, that she finally asked permission to fetch firewood in the bush and there she hanged herself."	Evidence for	x	adult			No evidence	na	No evidence		approvingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		yes	distressed	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	private	yes	Evidence for		secondhand
4	syme	Case	Akan	"it was that of telling or expecting the person found guilty to commit suicide.(42) The same Rev. Mader reports another case of ""carrying the corpse"", where the ""guilty person"" was a mother of eight children. Through fear of the government-since two soldiers happened to be in town-she was not lynched but socially ostracized. Everybody avoided her. Her relatives told her to take courage and kill herself. She even went to see the paramount chief to ask for her death, but was refused-again for fear of the Government. She was then taken into custody in the house of an elder. There the constant mockery so distressed her, that she finally asked permission to fetch firewood in the bush and there she hanged herself."																																No evidence				No evidence																																										
5	admin	Cultural model	Akan	After the Colonial Government had stopped this lynching, another form of punishment became more frequent: it was that of telling or expecting the person found guilty to commit suicide.	No evidence	x	na	telling or expecting the person found guilty to commit suicide.	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	x		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	both	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	na	yes	Evidence for	low	unknown
5	zgarfield	Cultural model	Akan	After the Colonial Government had stopped this lynching, another form of punishment became more frequent: it was that of telling or expecting the person found guilty to commit suicide.	No evidence	x	unknown	x		No evidence	na	Evidence for	x	approvingly	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	yes	Evidence for		na
5	syme	Cultural model	Akan	After the Colonial Government had stopped this lynching, another form of punishment became more frequent: it was that of telling or expecting the person found guilty to commit suicide.																																No evidence				No evidence																																										
6	admin	Case	Akan	"About ten months ago the patient and five of her relatives came to Bredi to drink the shrine-medicine, to ascertain whether any of them had by witchcraft caused the brother's madness (the implication being that they felt themselves innocent and wished for vindication). About six weeks later the patient began sitting about miserably, scratching her body and complaining of headache. She became unable either to work or sleep and was unwilling to speak. When her child approached her she drove it away. Her husband then left her and took the child, whereafter she sat rocking herself, and moaning ""My child, my child"". Then she said she had been ""caught"" by the medicine for witchcraft. She said she had caused her brother's madness because he had refused to give her a due share of the family cocoa-farms. She also said she had by witchcraft damaged her own womb so that it had borne but one child. The name of her obayi was Huhuke. Then she went into the bush to hang herself but was seen trying to fling the rope round a branch. For about four months she has refused to drink water, saying that when she does she feels the water walking over her head. This is the only absurd thing she has said. She complained of ""basa-basa"" dreams but could not relate them. She always seemed frightened, but could not say of what."	No evidence	x	adult	"She became unable either to work or sleep and was unwilling to speak. When her child approached her she drove it away. Her husband then left her and took the child, whereafter she sat rocking herself, and moaning ""My child, my child"". Then she said she had been ""caught"" by the medicine for witchcraft. She said she had caused her brother's madness because he had refused to give her a due share of the family cocoa-farms. She also said she had by witchcraft damaged her own womb so that it had borne but one child."	personal conflict,accus_commit wrongdo,rejection,spirit attack	No evidence	na	Evidence for	She said she had caused her brother's madness because he had refused to give her a due share of the family cocoa-farms. 	unknown	na	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	brother	unknown	depression,gen anxiety disorder	Evidence for	hanging	x		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	kin	male	na	Evidence for	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	moderate,chronic	headache	not working, scratching her body, rocking, not drinking water	6	x	x	"""damaged womb"""	yes	"""sitting about miserably"", always frightened"	x	"brother's ""madness"""	x	not stated	1	unable to work or sleep, unwilling to speak, headaches, scratching body, not drinking water, bad dreams, always frightened	"""For about four months [after suicide attempt] she has refused to drink water, saying that when she does she feels the water walking over her head. This is the only absurd thing she has said. She complained of ""basa-basa"" dreams but could not relate them. She always seemed frightened, but could not say of what."""	scratching body, headaches	Evidence for	public	no	Evidence for	unknown	firsthand
6	zgarfield	Case	Akan	"About ten months ago the patient and five of her relatives came to Bredi to drink the shrine-medicine, to ascertain whether any of them had by witchcraft caused the brother's madness (the implication being that they felt themselves innocent and wished for vindication). About six weeks later the patient began sitting about miserably, scratching her body and complaining of headache. She became unable either to work or sleep and was unwilling to speak. When her child approached her she drove it away. Her husband then left her and took the child, whereafter she sat rocking herself, and moaning ""My child, my child"". Then she said she had been ""caught"" by the medicine for witchcraft. She said she had caused her brother's madness because he had refused to give her a due share of the family cocoa-farms. She also said she had by witchcraft damaged her own womb so that it had borne but one child. The name of her obayi was Huhuke. Then she went into the bush to hang herself but was seen trying to fling the rope round a branch. For about four months she has refused to drink water, saying that when she does she feels the water walking over her head. This is the only absurd thing she has said. She complained of ""basa-basa"" dreams but could not relate them. She always seemed frightened, but could not say of what."	Evidence for	x	adult	"she said she had been ""caught"" by the medicine for witchcraft. She said she had caused her brother's madness because he had refused to give her a due share of the family cocoa-farms. She also said she had by witchcraft damaged her own womb so that it had borne but one child. "		No evidence	na	Evidence for	x	unknown	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	na	na	depression,gen anxiety disorder	Evidence for	hanging,starvation	end of pain 	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence against		Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	kin	na	na	Evidence for	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	attempt	x	Evidence against	severe	headache	drank the shrine-medicine	4	x	"She said she had caused her brother's madness because he had refused to give her a due share of the family cocoa-farms. She complained of ""basa-basa"" dreams "		yes	depression (?) headache, 	x	x	x	not stated	1	"the patient began sitting about miserably, scratching her body and complaining of headache. She became unable either to work or sleep and was unwilling to speak. When her child approached her she drove it awayshe sat rocking herself, and moaning ""My child, my child"""	Then she went into the bush to hang herself but was seen trying to fling the rope round a branch. For about four months she has refused to drink water, saying that when she does she feels the water walking over her head.	headache, damaged womb 	Evidence for	na	no	Evidence for		firsthand
6	syme	Case	Akan	"About ten months ago the patient and five of her relatives came to Bredi to drink the shrine-medicine, to ascertain whether any of them had by witchcraft caused the brother's madness (the implication being that they felt themselves innocent and wished for vindication). About six weeks later the patient began sitting about miserably, scratching her body and complaining of headache. She became unable either to work or sleep and was unwilling to speak. When her child approached her she drove it away. Her husband then left her and took the child, whereafter she sat rocking herself, and moaning ""My child, my child"". Then she said she had been ""caught"" by the medicine for witchcraft. She said she had caused her brother's madness because he had refused to give her a due share of the family cocoa-farms. She also said she had by witchcraft damaged her own womb so that it had borne but one child. The name of her obayi was Huhuke. Then she went into the bush to hang herself but was seen trying to fling the rope round a branch. For about four months she has refused to drink water, saying that when she does she feels the water walking over her head. This is the only absurd thing she has said. She complained of ""basa-basa"" dreams but could not relate them. She always seemed frightened, but could not say of what."																																No evidence				No evidence																																										
7	zgarfield	Cultural model	Akan	Those who met inauspicious deaths (atofo), including those who killed themselves, showed by the manner of their [p. 38] deaths that they were guilty of some hidden offence (and a suicide could be tried after death).	No evidence	x	unknown	x		No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	and a suicide could be tried after death.	na	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		na
7	syme	Cultural model	Akan	Those who met inauspicious deaths (atofo), including those who killed themselves, showed by the manner of their [p. 38] deaths that they were guilty of some hidden offence (and a suicide could be tried after death).	No evidence	x	unknown	Those who met inauspicious deaths (atofo), including those who killed themselves, showed by the manner of their [p. 38] deaths that they were guilty of some hidden offence (and a suicide could be tried after death).	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly,ambivalently	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	both	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	" Those who met inauspicious deaths (atofo), including those who killed themselves, showed by the manner of their [p. 38] deaths that they were guilty of some hidden offence (and a suicide could be tried after death).

assumed guilty"	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
8	zgarfield	Case	Akan	Yeboa, no doubt, committed suicide as is the custom when a king has failed his people...	Evidence for	x	adult	 as is the custom when a king has failed his people	military defeat	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 as is the custom when a king has failed his people	approvingly		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence		No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	 as is the custom when a king has failed his people	Evidence against	Evidence against	Evidence against	Evidence against	Evidence against	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	outgroup	both	na	No evidence	male		Evidence against	Evidence for	war,combat,witness violence,perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	yes	Evidence for		firsthand
8	syme	Case	Akan	Yeboa, no doubt, committed suicide as is the custom when a king has failed his people...	Evidence for	x	adult	Yeboa, no doubt, committed suicide as is the custom when a king has failed his people...	loss social position	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social domains	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	yes	Evidence for	low	unknown
10	zgarfield	Case	Akan	When the Ashanti found the co-ruler still adorned with a profusion of gold ornaments, they believed he was the Bonohene, and they thought it fitting to carry him to Kumasi in state so that the people could see what a mighty king they had captured. He was therefore carried in a litter, attended by as many servants as the Ashanti could find for him. When they passed the sacred rock at Tanoboase, the co-ruler was allowed to rest there and sit in the cave, and the remnants of the vessels from which he ate and drank are still there today. Later he asked for his kete drums, which he had not heard played since the disaster, and a servant was sent to Manso to look for them. The Bonohene Ameyaw Kwaakye who had been taken into safety by some faithful followers finally committed suicide in the woods near Tekyiman. A small undecorated earth dome, no more than about two feet in diameter, marks the place where he is said to lie; a poor grave for a king who was once so wealthy and great. The Queenmother Dwambara Akenten hid near Amona, a few miles north of Manso, from where she secretly ruled the remnants of her people for another two years, then she died. Her sister, her co-ruler who had hidden near Boyem with some of the princes and princesses, was betrayed and taken into captivity to Kumasi, where she gave herself out as the Bonohemmaa.	Evidence for	x	adult	the people could see what a mighty king they had captured	military defeat	No evidence	na	Evidence for	the people could see what a mighty king they had captured	approvingly		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence		Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	military defeat	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	social superior	na	na	Evidence against	male		No evidence	Evidence for	war,witness violence,perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	The Bonohene Ameyaw Kwaakye who had been taken into safety by some faithful followers finally committed suicide in the woods near Tekyiman.	x	Evidence for	private	yes	Evidence for		firsthand
10	syme	Case	Akan	When the Ashanti found the co-ruler still adorned with a profusion of gold ornaments, they believed he was the Bonohene, and they thought it fitting to carry him to Kumasi in state so that the people could see what a mighty king they had captured. He was therefore carried in a litter, attended by as many servants as the Ashanti could find for him. When they passed the sacred rock at Tanoboase, the co-ruler was allowed to rest there and sit in the cave, and the remnants of the vessels from which he ate and drank are still there today. Later he asked for his kete drums, which he had not heard played since the disaster, and a servant was sent to Manso to look for them. The Bonohene Ameyaw Kwaakye who had been taken into safety by some faithful followers finally committed suicide in the woods near Tekyiman. A small undecorated earth dome, no more than about two feet in diameter, marks the place where he is said to lie; a poor grave for a king who was once so wealthy and great. The Queenmother Dwambara Akenten hid near Amona, a few miles north of Manso, from where she secretly ruled the remnants of her people for another two years, then she died. Her sister, her co-ruler who had hidden near Boyem with some of the princes and princesses, was betrayed and taken into captivity to Kumasi, where she gave herself out as the Bonohemmaa.	Evidence for	x	adult	When the Ashanti found the co-ruler still adorned with a profusion of gold ornaments, they believed he was the Bonohene, and they thought it fitting to carry him to Kumasi in state so that the people could see what a mighty king they had captured. He was therefore carried in a litter, attended by as many servants as the Ashanti could find for him. When they passed the sacred rock at Tanoboase, the co-ruler was allowed to rest there and sit in the cave, and the remnants of the vessels from which he ate and drank are still there today. Later he asked for his kete drums, which he had not heard played since the disaster, and a servant was sent to Manso to look for them. The Bonohene Ameyaw Kwaakye who had been taken into safety by some faithful followers finally committed suicide in the woods near Tekyiman.	enslavement_capture,military defeat,loss social position	No evidence	na	Evidence for	When the Ashanti found the co-ruler still adorned with a profusion of gold ornaments, they believed he was the Bonohene, and they thought it fitting to carry him to Kumasi in state so that the people could see what a mighty king they had captured. He was therefore carried in a litter, attended by as many servants as the Ashanti could find for him. When they passed the sacred rock at Tanoboase, the co-ruler was allowed to rest there and sit in the cave, and the remnants of the vessels from which he ate and drank are still there today. Later he asked for his kete drums, which he had not heard played since the disaster, and a servant was sent to Manso to look for them. The Bonohene Ameyaw Kwaakye who had been taken into safety by some faithful followers finally committed suicide in the woods near Tekyiman.	approvingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for		Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	outgroup	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence against		war	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	servant followed	unknown	x	x	x	 A small undecorated earth dome, no more than about two feet in diameter, marks the place where he is said to lie; a poor grave for a king who was once so wealthy and great. The Queenmother Dwambara Akenten hid near Amona, a few miles north of Manso, from where she secretly ruled the remnants of her people for another two years, then she died. Her sister, her co-ruler who had hidden near Boyem with some of the princes and princesses, was betrayed and taken into captivity to Kumasi, where she gave herself out as the Bonohemmaa.	not stated	1	x	The Bonohene Ameyaw Kwaakye who had been taken into safety by some faithful followers finally committed suicide in the woods near Tekyiman. A small undecorated earth dome, no more than about two feet in diameter, marks the place where he is said to lie; a poor grave for a king who was once so wealthy and great. 	x	Evidence for	public	unknown	Evidence against	low	unknown
13	zgarfield	Cultural model	Akan	the action of taking one's own life was considered as honourable and acclaimed as praiseworthy...where a man commits suicide to wipe out what he considers his dishonour and because he cannot stand the ridicule of his companions.	Evidence for	x	adult	where a man commits suicide to wipe out what he considers his dishonour 	military defeat	No evidence	na	Evidence for		approvingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	he cannot stand the ridicule of his companions.	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	Evidence for	male		No evidence	Evidence for	war,witness violence,perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	a man commits suicide to wipe out what he considers his dishonour		na	the action of taking one's own life was considered as honourable and acclaimed as praiseworthy	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	na	yes	Evidence for		na
13	syme	Cultural model	Akan	the action of taking one's own life was considered as honourable and acclaimed as praiseworthy...where a man commits suicide to wipe out what he considers his dishonour and because he cannot stand the ridicule of his companions.	No evidence	x	adult	 the action of taking one's own life was considered as honourable and acclaimed as praiseworthy...where a man commits suicide to wipe out what he considers his dishonour and because he cannot stand the ridicule of his companions.	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	" the action of taking one's own life was considered as honourable and acclaimed as praiseworthy...where a man commits suicide to wipe out what he considers his dishonour and because he cannot stand the ridicule of his companions.

wipe out dishonor, escape"	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		unknown	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	 the action of taking one's own life was considered as honourable and acclaimed as praiseworthy...where a man commits suicide to wipe out what he considers his dishonour and because he cannot stand the ridicule of his companions.	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	dishonor removed	x	Evidence for	na	unknown	Evidence for	low	na
14	zgarfield	Cultural model	Akan	Suicide was considered a sin when it was carried out to avoid the consequences of some wrongful deed, or when, after investigation, it was not possible to ascribe any motive for the act. The immediate superior (if himself a Chief under a greater Chief) of a subject who had violated any of the great tribal or national taboos, and thereby incurred the death penalty, appears to have been [p. 302] held responsible that his subject did not escape punishment by committing suicide.	No evidence	x	unknown	Suicide was considered a sin when it was carried out to avoid the consequences of some wrongful deed		No evidence	na	No evidence	avoid the consequences of some wrongful deed	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	na	avoid the consequences of some wrongful deeds	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	Evidence for	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	na	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	na	na	Evidence for		na
14	syme	Cultural model	Akan	Suicide was considered a sin when it was carried out to avoid the consequences of some wrongful deed, or when, after investigation, it was not possible to ascribe any motive for the act. The immediate superior (if himself a Chief under a greater Chief) of a subject who had violated any of the great tribal or national taboos, and thereby incurred the death penalty, appears to have been [p. 302] held responsible that his subject did not escape punishment by committing suicide.	No evidence	x	unknown	carried out to avoid the consequences of some wrongful deed, or when, after investigation, it was not possible to ascribe any motive for the act. The immediate superior (if himself a Chief under a greater Chief) of a subject who had violated any of the great tribal or national taboos, and thereby incurred the death penalty, appears to have been [p. 302] held responsible that his subject did not escape punishment by committing suicide.	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	 Suicide was considered a sin when it was carried out to avoid the consequences of some wrongful deed, or when, after investigation, it was not possible to ascribe any motive for the act. 	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	social group	na	na		more often men	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	" Suicide was considered a sin when it was carried out to avoid the consequences of some wrongful deed, or when, after investigation, it was not possible to ascribe any motive for the act. 

viewed as a sin"	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence for	low	na
15	zgarfield	Case	Akan	During the visit of a person of considerable importance, who was much beloved by the loyal and generous-hearted Ashanti, the Chief and Elders of a remote province, in common with many others, had come to do him honour. When it came to the turn of a certain old man to be presented, in bending forward to do obeisance, he, unnoticed by all but his immediate followers, inadvertently broke wind. Within an hour of the termination of the ceremony he had gone and hanged himself. He had 'disgraced' himself and his following. The universal comment in Ashanti among his fellow countrymen was that [p. 373] he had done the only right thing under the circumstances. He could never have lived down the ridicule which he might otherwise have incurred. Fadie ene ewuo a, fanyinam ewuo ('If it be a choice between disgrace and death, then death is preferable'). It was, in fact, this occasion which first made me familiar with a proverb which I later found to be universally known in Ashanti.(1)	No evidence	x	adult	When it came to the turn of a certain old man to be presented, in bending forward to do obeisance, he, unnoticed by all but his immediate followers, inadvertently broke wind. Within an hour of the termination of the ceremony he had gone and hanged himself. He had 'disgraced' himself and his following		No evidence	na	No evidence	He had 'disgraced' himself and his following. 	approvingly		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for		Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	He could never have lived down the ridicule which he might otherwise have incurred.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	Evidence for	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	Evidence against	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	He could never have lived down the ridicule which he might otherwise have incurred.		unknown	He had 'disgraced' himself and his following.	He had 'disgraced' himself and his following. ...He could never have lived down the ridicule which he might otherwise have incurred.	x	x	not stated	1	x	Within an hour of the termination of the ceremony he had gone and hanged himself.	x	No evidence	private	yes	Evidence for		first person
15	syme	Case	Akan	During the visit of a person of considerable importance, who was much beloved by the loyal and generous-hearted Ashanti, the Chief and Elders of a remote province, in common with many others, had come to do him honour. When it came to the turn of a certain old man to be presented, in bending forward to do obeisance, he, unnoticed by all but his immediate followers, inadvertently broke wind. Within an hour of the termination of the ceremony he had gone and hanged himself. He had 'disgraced' himself and his following. The universal comment in Ashanti among his fellow countrymen was that [p. 373] he had done the only right thing under the circumstances. He could never have lived down the ridicule which he might otherwise have incurred. Fadie ene ewuo a, fanyinam ewuo ('If it be a choice between disgrace and death, then death is preferable'). It was, in fact, this occasion which first made me familiar with a proverb which I later found to be universally known in Ashanti.(1)	No evidence	x	elderly	During the visit of a person of considerable importance, who was much beloved by the loyal and generous-hearted Ashanti, the Chief and Elders of a remote province, in common with many others, had come to do him honour. When it came to the turn of a certain old man to be presented, in bending forward to do obeisance, he, unnoticed by all but his immediate followers, inadvertently broke wind. Within an hour of the termination of the ceremony he had gone and hanged himself.	accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	 The universal comment in Ashanti among his fellow countrymen was that [p. 373] he had done the only right thing under the circumstances. He could never have lived down the ridicule which he might otherwise have incurred. Fadie ene ewuo a, fanyinam ewuo ('If it be a choice between disgrace and death, then death is preferable').	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	6	x	x	x	unknown	disgrace	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	private	unknown	No evidence	high	unknown
16	zgarfield	Cultural model	Akan	Again, if a number of Ashanti happened to be eating together, and one broke wind, 'the bowl of food would be placed upon that person's head that he might be used as a table'; but, added my informant, 'if the man were among friends and was well liked, the rest of the party might cover their mouths with their hands and go outside that he might not see their laughter, because they might fear that the man who had offended would go away and hang himself, should he notice that the others were laughing at him'.	No evidence	x	na	" Again, if a number of Ashanti happened to be eating together, and one broke wind...they might fear that the man who had offended would go away and hang himself, should he notice that the others were laughing at him'.
"		No evidence	na	No evidence	"hey might fear that the man who had offended would go away and hang himself, should he notice that the others were laughing at him'.
"	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	"they might fear that the man who had offended would go away and hang himself, should he notice that the others were laughing at him'.
"	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	No evidence	na		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	Evidence against	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	fear of ridicule	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"they might fear that the man who had offended would go away and hang himself, should he notice that the others were laughing at him'.
"	x	No evidence	private	yes	Evidence for		na
16	syme	Cultural model	Akan	Again, if a number of Ashanti happened to be eating together, and one broke wind, 'the bowl of food would be placed upon that person's head that he might be used as a table'; but, added my informant, 'if the man were among friends and was well liked, the rest of the party might cover their mouths with their hands and go outside that he might not see their laughter, because they might fear that the man who had offended would go away and hang himself, should he notice that the others were laughing at him'.	No evidence	x	unknown	Again, if a number of Ashanti happened to be eating together, and one broke wind, 'the bowl of food would be placed upon that person's head that he might be used as a table'; but, added my informant, 'if the man were among friends and was well liked, the rest of the party might cover their mouths with their hands and go outside that he might not see their laughter, because they might fear that the man who had offended would go away and hang himself, should he notice that the others were laughing at him'.	accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	social group	unknown	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	private	unknown	Evidence for	low	na
17	zgarfield	Case	Akan	"Reindorf mentions a somewhat significant occurrence at [p.82] this time, namely, a riot at Cape Coast Castle, between the followers of some Wassaw chiefs, who had been assembled there to ratify the terms of this same Asanti treaty, after it had been previously discussed at Accra. Maclean immediately suppressed the disturbance, ""and ordered that a hundred lashes should be given to each of the chiefs who allowed their people to fight."" Boampong, one of the chiefs who suffered this indignity, committed suicide that same day. Since then, not infrequently have persons in authority been fined and otherwise punished by the Government for acts they had not ordered to be done, or, for not doing what the Government had declared the doing to be unlawful."	Evidence for	x	adult	Boampong, one of the chiefs who suffered this indignity, committed suicide that same day. 		No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Maclean immediately suppressed the disturbance, ""and ordered that a hundred lashes should be given to each of the chiefs who allowed their people to fight."""	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	social superior	male	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	war,physical abuse,witness violence,perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	indignity	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	Boampong, one of the chiefs who suffered this indignity, committed suicide that same day	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence for		first person
17	syme	Case	Akan	"Reindorf mentions a somewhat significant occurrence at [p.82] this time, namely, a riot at Cape Coast Castle, between the followers of some Wassaw chiefs, who had been assembled there to ratify the terms of this same Asanti treaty, after it had been previously discussed at Accra. Maclean immediately suppressed the disturbance, ""and ordered that a hundred lashes should be given to each of the chiefs who allowed their people to fight."" Boampong, one of the chiefs who suffered this indignity, committed suicide that same day. Since then, not infrequently have persons in authority been fined and otherwise punished by the Government for acts they had not ordered to be done, or, for not doing what the Government had declared the doing to be unlawful."	Evidence for	x	adult	"Reindorf mentions a somewhat significant occurrence at [p.82] this time, namely, a riot at Cape Coast Castle, between the followers of some Wassaw chiefs, who had been assembled there to ratify the terms of this same Asanti treaty, after it had been previously discussed at Accra. Maclean immediately suppressed the disturbance, ""and ordered that a hundred lashes should be given to each of the chiefs who allowed their people to fight."" Boampong, one of the chiefs who suffered this indignity, committed suicide that same day. "	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Reindorf mentions a somewhat significant occurrence at [p.82] this time, namely, a riot at Cape Coast Castle, between the followers of some Wassaw chiefs, who had been assembled there to ratify the terms of this same Asanti treaty, after it had been previously discussed at Accra. Maclean immediately suppressed the disturbance, ""and ordered that a hundred lashes should be given to each of the chiefs who allowed their people to fight."""	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	outgroup	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		witness violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	unknown	indignity	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	" Boampong, one of the chiefs who suffered this indignity, committed suicide that same day. Since then, not infrequently have persons in authority been fined and otherwise punished by the Government for acts they had not ordered to be done, or, for not doing what the Government had declared the doing to be unlawful.

no change"	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	low	documented_account
18	zgarfield	Case	Akan	Purification RiteWhen a queen-mother is satisfied that a girl is, or has been, guilty of kyiribra, she summons her parents to appear before her and she officially informs them of their daughter's misbehaviour. She impresses upon them the horrible nature of her [Page 50] moral depravity, and then orders them to have the ceremony of purification (of the girl, her lover and the community) performed, and this takes place outside the queen-mother's palace. In Offinso and some other chiefdoms, the girl is, in the first instance, taken to the paramount chief; and if the identity of the lover is known, he too is ordered to appear at the chief's house. The boy and girl are compelled to pay a certain amount of money 6 which their parents provide, if only because in the eyes of the people, the parents bear the blame of the offence equally with their children, as it demonstrates the inadequacy of the parental education they received. With the money, the spokesman of the chief purchases a sheep or two, a bottle of palm-oil, a small white chick (preferably just hatched), a pot of water and eggs. Then prayers are said to pacify the spiritual beings so outrageously offended. An old woman is selected to shave the recalcitrant girl, after which the leaf of a plant called damram, which is very red in colour is shown to the girl with the words: S akwadaa rep ade k[unavailable]k[unavailable][unavailable] ahw a yde damram ahahan kyer no. If a child insists on seeing something red, it is shown the leaf of damram. Red is symbolic of danger, 7 and so it is bad for a child to want to behold it. This common saying therefore is tantamount to a curse to the effect that a bad child (in this case, the girl) who only does dangerous and forbidden things, should be prepared for the consequences of its action. The girl's palms are then joined together and the red leaf is inserted between them. Ethnophysics (822) Purification and atonement (783) Sex and marital offenses (684) Ethnobotany (824) Then she is seated on the ground under the akusia tree which is usually found standing in front of the chief's house, and under which, in the past, criminals are said to have been executed. In full view of the crowd, she is stripped naked, except for a loin-cloth, and her legs are stretched and separated as widely as possible. A sheep is held over her head, and, fiercely brandishing his sword and chanting some incantations (the words of which no informant knew, presumably because they are a professional secret), an executioner slaughters it, allowing its blood to gush onto the girl's head and trickle down her body. According to one informant, for the purification to be effective at all, blood should run down the girl's genitals. Otherwise the ceremony would be considered unsuccessful and another sheep would have to be killed. This information can hardly be disputed as it is the best explanation for the separation of legs which appears to be a general rule in the kyiribra ceremony. An old woman reports from Kumasi that about ten years ago, one Adwoa Pinaman, daughter of Abenaa Konadu, committed kyiribra in a village four miles from the city and was dealt with in the manner described. Not long after Adwoa Pinaman's return from the bush, she died, and was soon followed by her child. The old woman is sure that it was a deep sense of shame that so abruptly put an end to the girl's life.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult	x	group conflict	No evidence	na	No evidence	When a queen-mother is satisfied that a girl is, or has been, guilty of kyiribra, she summons her parents to appear before her and she officially informs them of their daughter's misbehaviour.	na		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	social superior	female	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	1	x	x		na	x	x	x	x	na	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	Evidence for		first person
18	syme	Case	Akan	Purification RiteWhen a queen-mother is satisfied that a girl is, or has been, guilty of kyiribra, she summons her parents to appear before her and she officially informs them of their daughter's misbehaviour. She impresses upon them the horrible nature of her [Page 50] moral depravity, and then orders them to have the ceremony of purification (of the girl, her lover and the community) performed, and this takes place outside the queen-mother's palace. In Offinso and some other chiefdoms, the girl is, in the first instance, taken to the paramount chief; and if the identity of the lover is known, he too is ordered to appear at the chief's house. The boy and girl are compelled to pay a certain amount of money 6 which their parents provide, if only because in the eyes of the people, the parents bear the blame of the offence equally with their children, as it demonstrates the inadequacy of the parental education they received. With the money, the spokesman of the chief purchases a sheep or two, a bottle of palm-oil, a small white chick (preferably just hatched), a pot of water and eggs. Then prayers are said to pacify the spiritual beings so outrageously offended. An old woman is selected to shave the recalcitrant girl, after which the leaf of a plant called damram, which is very red in colour is shown to the girl with the words: S akwadaa rep ade k[unavailable]k[unavailable][unavailable] ahw a yde damram ahahan kyer no. If a child insists on seeing something red, it is shown the leaf of damram. Red is symbolic of danger, 7 and so it is bad for a child to want to behold it. This common saying therefore is tantamount to a curse to the effect that a bad child (in this case, the girl) who only does dangerous and forbidden things, should be prepared for the consequences of its action. The girl's palms are then joined together and the red leaf is inserted between them. Ethnophysics (822) Purification and atonement (783) Sex and marital offenses (684) Ethnobotany (824) Then she is seated on the ground under the akusia tree which is usually found standing in front of the chief's house, and under which, in the past, criminals are said to have been executed. In full view of the crowd, she is stripped naked, except for a loin-cloth, and her legs are stretched and separated as widely as possible. A sheep is held over her head, and, fiercely brandishing his sword and chanting some incantations (the words of which no informant knew, presumably because they are a professional secret), an executioner slaughters it, allowing its blood to gush onto the girl's head and trickle down her body. According to one informant, for the purification to be effective at all, blood should run down the girl's genitals. Otherwise the ceremony would be considered unsuccessful and another sheep would have to be killed. This information can hardly be disputed as it is the best explanation for the separation of legs which appears to be a general rule in the kyiribra ceremony. An old woman reports from Kumasi that about ten years ago, one Adwoa Pinaman, daughter of Abenaa Konadu, committed kyiribra in a village four miles from the city and was dealt with in the manner described. Not long after Adwoa Pinaman's return from the bush, she died, and was soon followed by her child. The old woman is sure that it was a deep sense of shame that so abruptly put an end to the girl's life.	No evidence	x	young adult	An old woman reports from Kumasi that about ten years ago, one Adwoa Pinaman, daughter of Abenaa Konadu, committed kyiribra in a village four miles from the city and was dealt with in the manner described. Not long after Adwoa Pinaman's return from the bush, she died, and was soon followed by her child. The old woman is sure that it was a deep sense of shame that so abruptly put an end to the girl's life.	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na		x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	social group	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x		na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	unclear suicide	yes	shame	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	 Not long after Adwoa Pinaman's return from the bush, she died, and was soon followed by her child. 		Evidence for	private	unknown	Evidence for	low	secondhand
19	zgarfield	Cultural model	Akan	Shame Resulting from Kyiribra--On the return of the boy and girl from the forest, the elders of the village call them and advise them to take care that nothing like their offence may occur to them again. In principle the advice closes the case, but the disgrace into which the offence has drawn the girl and her relatives is at times too much to bear resignedly and sooner or later may lead to her death or insanity.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult	"In principle the advice closes the case, but the disgrace into which the offence has drawn the girl and her relatives is at times too much to bear resignedly and sooner or later may lead to her death or insanity.
"		No evidence	na	No evidence	Shame Resulting from Kyiribra	na	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for		Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	Evidence against	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	Shame Resulting from Kyiribra	x	x	x	na	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	Evidence for		first person
19	syme	Cultural model	Akan	Shame Resulting from Kyiribra--On the return of the boy and girl from the forest, the elders of the village call them and advise them to take care that nothing like their offence may occur to them again. In principle the advice closes the case, but the disgrace into which the offence has drawn the girl and her relatives is at times too much to bear resignedly and sooner or later may lead to her death or insanity.	No evidence	x	young adult	Shame Resulting from Kyiribra--On the return of the boy and girl from the forest, the elders of the village call them and advise them to take care that nothing like their offence may occur to them again. In principle the advice closes the case, but the disgrace into which the offence has drawn the girl and her relatives is at times too much to bear resignedly and sooner or later may lead to her death or insanity.	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	pregnancy	unknown	In principle the advice closes the case, but the disgrace into which the offence has drawn the girl and her relatives is at times too much to bear resignedly and sooner or later may lead to her death or insanity.	x	x	x	not stated	1	but the disgrace into which the offence has drawn the girl and her relatives is at times too much to bear resignedly and sooner or later may lead to her death or insanity.	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	low	na
20	zgarfield	Cultural model	Akan	It [suicide] was praiseworthy if done in war....	Evidence for	x	adult	x	military defeat	No evidence	na	No evidence	It [suicide] was praiseworthy if done in war....	approvingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	unknown	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	war,witness violence,perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	It [suicide] was praiseworthy if done in war....	x	No evidence	public	yes	No evidence		unknown
20	syme	Cultural model	Akan	It [suicide] was praiseworthy if done in war....	Evidence for	x	adult	It [suicide] was praiseworthy if done in war....	unknown	No evidence	na	Evidence for	war	approvingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	outgroup	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	Evidence against		war,combat,witness violence,perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
21	zgarfield	Cultural model	Akan	It [suicide] was praiseworthy if...done to follow one's master to the spirit land....	No evidence	x	adult	It [suicide] was praiseworthy if...done to follow one's master to the spirit land....	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	It [suicide] was praiseworthy if...done to follow one's master to the spirit land....	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	It [suicide] was praiseworthy if...done to follow one's master to the spirit land....	x	No evidence	na	yes	No evidence		na
21	syme	Cultural model	Akan	It [suicide] was praiseworthy if...done to follow one's master to the spirit land....	No evidence	"positive
It [suicide] was praiseworthy if...done to follow one's master to the spirit land...."	young adult,adult,elderly	It [suicide] was praiseworthy if...done to follow one's master to the spirit land....	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	It [suicide] was praiseworthy if...done to follow one's master to the spirit land....		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	both	x	No evidence		other	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	low	na
23	zgarfield	Cultural model	Akan	It [suicide] was a sin when done to avoid the consequence of a bad deed....	No evidence	x	unknown	"Quote: It [suicide] was a sin when done to avoid the consequence of a bad deed....
"		No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Quote: It [suicide] was a sin when done to avoid the consequence of a bad deed....
"	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na		No evidence	not stated	"Quote: It [suicide] was a sin when done to avoid the consequence of a bad deed....
"	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	"Quote: It [suicide] was a sin when done to avoid the consequence of a bad deed....
"	x	x	not stated	1	x	"Quote: It [suicide] was a sin when done to avoid the consequence of a bad deed....
"	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for		na
23	syme	Cultural model	Akan	It [suicide] was a sin when done to avoid the consequence of a bad deed....	No evidence	x	unknown	bad deed	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	avoid consequences	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
24	zgarfield	Cultural model	Akan	Drunkenness was considered no excuse for murder or suicide.	Evidence for	x	adult	Drunkenness	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	x	na	na	No evidence	na		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	Drunkenness		x	Drunkenness		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	no	Evidence against		na
24	syme	Cultural model	Akan	Drunkenness was considered no excuse for murder or suicide.	No evidence	x	unknown	 Drunkenness was considered no excuse for murder or suicide.	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	murder or drunkenness 	x	x	x	assoc. drunkenness, assoc. committing homicide	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
25	zgarfield	Cultural model	Akan	Among the many suicides were those who felt themselves to have invited the displeasure or envy of the gods.	No evidence	x	unknown	"displeasure or envy of the gods.
"	spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	"displeasure or envy of the gods.
"	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	"those who felt themselves to have invited the displeasure or envy of the gods.
"	x	x	x	not stated	>2	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence for		na
25	syme	Cultural model	Akan	Among the many suicides were those who felt themselves to have invited the displeasure or envy of the gods.	No evidence	x	unknown	Among the many suicides were those who felt themselves to have invited the displeasure or envy of the gods.	spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
26	zgarfield	Cultural model	Akan	"Asantes ""who are weary of their lives"" have, he wrote, an easy method of committing suicide, without soiling their own hand with their blood. They have only to swear by the king's law or oath that they must be killed, and they are killed accordingly. Many poor wretches avail themselves of this gloomy release, from the oppressions under which they have hopelessly struggled."	No evidence	x	unknown	"Asantes ""who are weary of their lives"		No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na		na	No evidence	ask_someone_else	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	"Asantes ""who are weary of their lives"	Many poor wretches avail themselves of this gloomy release, from the oppressions under which they have hopelessly struggled.	x	x	not stated	1	x	execution style 	x	No evidence	public	no	Evidence for		na
26	syme	Cultural model	Akan	"Asantes ""who are weary of their lives"" have, he wrote, an easy method of committing suicide, without soiling their own hand with their blood. They have only to swear by the king's law or oath that they must be killed, and they are killed accordingly. Many poor wretches avail themselves of this gloomy release, from the oppressions under which they have hopelessly struggled."	No evidence	x	unknown	"Asantes ""who are weary of their lives"" have, he wrote, an easy method of committing suicide, without soiling their own hand with their blood. They have only to swear by the king's law or oath that they must be killed, and they are killed accordingly. Many poor wretches avail themselves of this gloomy release, from the oppressions under which they have hopelessly struggled."	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	commit_crime_for_dea	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	"Asantes ""who are weary of their lives"""	"Asantes ""who are weary of their lives"""	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
27	zgarfield	Case	Azande	Gbndi, of the Akowe clan, who lived in the next settlement to ours, slept with his wife when she was keeping taboos of vengeance. When it was known what he had done he was so humiliated that he told his neighbours he was going to commit suicide. He disappeared for three days and was then discovered in the bush by his friends who brought him home 'in honour', and the esteem they showed him wiped out the disgrace. A Zande commented at the time, 'A man who really intends to commit suicide does not tell people of his intentions.	No evidence	x	adult	Gbndi, of the Akowe clan, who lived in the next settlement to ours, slept with his wife when she was keeping taboos of vengeance. 	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Gbndi, of the Akowe clan, who lived in the next settlement to ours, slept with his wife when she was keeping taboos of vengeance. When it was known what he had done he was so humiliated that he told his neighbours he was going to commit suicide. 	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	When it was known what he had done he was so humiliated that he told his neighbours he was going to commit suicide.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	threat,plan	x	Evidence against	na	no evidence of ailme	He disappeared for three days and was then discovered in the bush by his friends	4	x	x		unknown	When it was known what he had done he was so humiliated that he told his neighbours he was going to commit suicide.	When it was known what he had done he was so humiliated that he told his neighbours he was going to commit suicide.	x	x	not stated	1	x	discovered in the bush by his friends who brought him home 'in honour', and the esteem they showed him wiped out the disgrace.	x	No evidence	private	no	Evidence for		firsthand
27	syme	Case	Azande	Gbndi, of the Akowe clan, who lived in the next settlement to ours, slept with his wife when she was keeping taboos of vengeance. When it was known what he had done he was so humiliated that he told his neighbours he was going to commit suicide. He disappeared for three days and was then discovered in the bush by his friends who brought him home 'in honour', and the esteem they showed him wiped out the disgrace. A Zande commented at the time, 'A man who really intends to commit suicide does not tell people of his intentions.	No evidence	x	adult	Gbndi, of the Akowe clan, who lived in the next settlement to ours, slept with his wife when she was keeping taboos of vengeance.	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Gbndi, of the Akowe clan, who lived in the next settlement to ours, slept with his wife when she was keeping taboos of vengeance.	ambivalently,pityingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	social group	unknown	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	threat,attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	unknown	humiliation	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	low,unknown	secondhand
28	zgarfield	Case	Azande	"""Amongst other things he [JMA: i.e. Zemio, a Zande chief] told me that the custom of purchasing a bride with thirty or forty or more spearheads, paid to the father, was confined to the lower circles. When a man of princely rank woos the daughter of a foreign ruler (and all are mostly foreign, rarely visiting each other), everything is formally transacted through go-betweens. The wooing must be preceded by repeated messages, with friendly gifts for the father, who thus becomes aware of the suitor's intentions. If the presents correspond to his expectations, he sends the girl straight to the bridegroom. Then should she be rejected for any reason, the disgrace falls on the father, who has to return all the presents. Zemio's eldest daughter, who had formerly resided amongst the Arabs, was at present living near her father, to whom she caused much annoyance by obstinately refusing to accept a husband at his hands. She even attempted to commit suicide to escape his importunities, an extremely rare occurrence amongst Negroes."""	No evidence	x	adult	"Zemio's eldest daughter, who had formerly resided amongst the Arabs, was at present living near her father, to whom she caused much annoyance by obstinately refusing to accept a husband at his hands. She even attempted to commit suicide to escape his importunities, an extremely rare occurrence amongst Negroes."""	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Then should she be rejected for any reason, the disgrace falls on the father, who has to return all the presents. Zemio's eldest daughter, who had formerly resided amongst the Arabs, was at present living near her father, to whom she caused much annoyance by obstinately refusing to accept a husband at his hands. 	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	"She even attempted to commit suicide to escape his importunities, an extremely rare occurrence amongst Negroes."""	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	male	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		no	x	"She even attempted to commit suicide to escape his importunities, an extremely rare occurrence amongst Negroes."""	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence for		secondhand
28	syme	Case	Azande	"""Amongst other things he [JMA: i.e. Zemio, a Zande chief] told me that the custom of purchasing a bride with thirty or forty or more spearheads, paid to the father, was confined to the lower circles. When a man of princely rank woos the daughter of a foreign ruler (and all are mostly foreign, rarely visiting each other), everything is formally transacted through go-betweens. The wooing must be preceded by repeated messages, with friendly gifts for the father, who thus becomes aware of the suitor's intentions. If the presents correspond to his expectations, he sends the girl straight to the bridegroom. Then should she be rejected for any reason, the disgrace falls on the father, who has to return all the presents. Zemio's eldest daughter, who had formerly resided amongst the Arabs, was at present living near her father, to whom she caused much annoyance by obstinately refusing to accept a husband at his hands. She even attempted to commit suicide to escape his importunities, an extremely rare occurrence amongst Negroes."""	No evidence	x	young adult	" Zemio's eldest daughter, who had formerly resided amongst the Arabs, was at present living near her father, to whom she caused much annoyance by obstinately refusing to accept a husband at his hands. She even attempted to commit suicide to escape his importunities, an extremely rare occurrence amongst Negroes."""	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	" Zemio's eldest daughter, who had formerly resided amongst the Arabs, was at present living near her father, to whom she caused much annoyance by obstinately refusing to accept a husband at his hands. She even attempted to commit suicide to escape his importunities, an extremely rare occurrence amongst Negroes."""	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	" She even attempted to commit suicide to escape his importunities, an extremely rare occurrence amongst Negroes."""	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	father	male	na	No evidence	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	It appears she didn't marry though the exact timing and series of events is not known	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	high	secondhand
29	syme	Case	Bagisu	For example, following the death by drowning of a local man I visited his two widows. At the time, only two days after the death, it was rumoured that he might have been killed and I asked them about this. They agreed that it was possible but thought that it was unlikely. More probably, in their view, he had killed himself. He was an old man who had been ill for some considerable time and recently been in great pain. He had intimated to both of them his desire to put an end to his suffering. Preparations for a normal burial were going ahead. This death was recorded in the records as misadventure, reflecting, I suspect, the cultural as well as the physical indeterminateness of the situation. The question of definitions and of the cultural biases operating to produce a given set of statistics will be raised again in later discussion with respect to the idea of murder. (3) It is relevant to note that suicide by hanging carries the implication of self-sacrifice, for traditionally animals were sacrificed without bloodshed, by strangulation or stunning.	Evidence for	x	elderly	He was an old man who had been ill for some considerable time and recently been in great pain. He had intimated to both of them his desire to put an end to his suffering.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	drowning	He had intimated to both of them his desire to put an end to his suffering. 	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	severe,chronic	other chronic pain,unknown	x	4	x	x	unclear suicide,polygyny	unknown	x	x	x	x	yes	1	x	x	He was an old man who had been ill for some considerable time and recently been in great pain. 	No evidence	private	no	No evidence	unknown	firsthand
30	syme	Case	Banyoro	In 1861, when Speke entered the country of Kitara, Kamrasi was at the height of his power. He ruled until 1870, and when he died his successor Kabarega spent several months fighting with his brothers for the throne. He was the last king to gain his throne by the old custom of fighting and killing all rivals. Emin Pasha spoke very highly of Kabarega, but this monarch had an inveterate dislike of white men and when, at the invitation of king Mwanga of Buganda, Captain Lugard and Mr Jackson, of the Imperial British East Africa Company, entered Buganda in 1890, Kabarega made much trouble by frequent raids on its borders. At length a strong body of British and native troops was sent against him; he was driven from his capital and for some years wandered about the country, constantly fleeing from the British forces. In 1897 Mwanga, having rebelled, was forced to flee from Buganda and joined Kabarega. Some months later both kings were captured and sent into exile. Kabarega fought bravely and was only taken prisoner when his right arm had been shattered and he could no longer fire his gun. His arm was amputated, much against his will, and he made a final attempt to follow the tradition of his ancestors and, when wounded, take his own life. The present king, Andereya, who was then a young man, had been taken prisoner with his father, and during the night after the operation, Kabarega compelled him to tear the bandages from his arm so that he might bleed to death. His plan almost succeeded, but the guard at the door, becoming suspicious, looked in and discovered what was going on. The doctor was summoned and the bleeding stopped. A soldier was placed in charge of Kabarega, and his son was removed to another room and placed under guard.	Evidence for	x	adult	 In 1861, when Speke entered the country of Kitara, Kamrasi was at the height of his power. He ruled until 1870, and when he died his successor Kabarega spent several months fighting with his brothers for the throne. He was the last king to gain his throne by the old custom of fighting and killing all rivals. Emin Pasha spoke very highly of Kabarega, but this monarch had an inveterate dislike of white men and when, at the invitation of king Mwanga of Buganda, Captain Lugard and Mr Jackson, of the Imperial British East Africa Company, entered Buganda in 1890, Kabarega made much trouble by frequent raids on its borders. At length a strong body of British and native troops was sent against him; he was driven from his capital and for some years wandered about the country, constantly fleeing from the British forces. In 1897 Mwanga, having rebelled, was forced to flee from Buganda and joined Kabarega. Some months later both kings were captured and sent into exile. Kabarega fought bravely and was only taken prisoner when his right arm had been shattered and he could no longer fire his gun. His arm was amputated, much against his will, and he made a final attempt to follow the tradition of his ancestors and, when wounded, take his own life. 	group conflict,enslavement_capture,loss social position	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 In 1861, when Speke entered the country of Kitara, Kamrasi was at the height of his power. He ruled until 1870, and when he died his successor Kabarega spent several months fighting with his brothers for the throne. He was the last king to gain his throne by the old custom of fighting and killing all rivals. Emin Pasha spoke very highly of Kabarega, but this monarch had an inveterate dislike of white men and when, at the invitation of king Mwanga of Buganda, Captain Lugard and Mr Jackson, of the Imperial British East Africa Company, entered Buganda in 1890, Kabarega made much trouble by frequent raids on its borders. At length a strong body of British and native troops was sent against him; he was driven from his capital and for some years wandered about the country, constantly fleeing from the British forces. In 1897 Mwanga, having rebelled, was forced to flee from Buganda and joined Kabarega. Some months later both kings were captured and sent into exile. Kabarega fought bravely and was only taken prisoner when his right arm had been shattered and he could no longer fire his gun. His arm was amputated, much against his will, and he made a final attempt to follow the tradition of his ancestors and, when wounded, take his own life. The present king, Andereya, who was then a young man, had been taken prisoner with his father, and during the night after the operation, Kabarega compelled him to tear the bandages from his arm so that he might bleed to death. His plan almost succeeded, but the guard at the door, becoming suspicious, looked in and discovered what was going on. The doctor was summoned and the bleeding stopped. A soldier was placed in charge of Kabarega, and his son was removed to another room and placed under guard	approvingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	bleed_to_death	His arm was amputated, much against his will, and he made a final attempt to follow the tradition of his ancestors and, when wounded, take his own life. 	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	outgroup	na	unknown	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		war,combat,witness violence,perpetrate violence	attempt	x	Evidence for	severe	other	x	5	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	His plan almost succeeded, but the guard at the door, becoming suspicious, looked in and discovered what was going on. The doctor was summoned and the bleeding stopped. A soldier was placed in charge of Kabarega, and his son was removed to another room and placed under guard	Kabarega fought bravely and was only taken prisoner when his right arm had been shattered and he could no longer fire his gun. His arm was amputated, much against his will, 	Evidence for	private	yes	Evidence for	low	unknown
31	syme	Case	Bena	"Mkwawa fled from his fort into the bush with only a few followers, and in the end his retinue was reduced to four people, two men and two women. And he said, ""I see that it is now time for me to die. Do you agree to accompany me?"" The women and one man agreed, but the other man only pretended to do so. Then Mkwawa killed his two wives and the first man, but the second ran away. Mkwawa chased him, but could not catch him, so he returned to the place where he had killed the others, and there shot himself. His people had brought wood for a fire, so that when he killed himself he might fall among the burning logs and thus prevent the Germans from finding his body. But his head fell slightly to one side, and when the Germans heard the shot and the words of the boy who had run away, they came and found him--dead. And they cut off his head. (1) (1) This was on July 19, 1898, nearly four years after the destru"	Evidence for	x	adult	"Mkwawa fled from his fort into the bush with only a few followers, and in the end his retinue was reduced to four people, two men and two women. And he said, ""I see that it is now time for me to die. Do you agree to accompany me?"" The women and one man agreed, but the other man only pretended to do so. Then Mkwawa killed his two wives and the first man, but the second ran away. Mkwawa chased him, but could not catch him, so he returned to the place where he had killed the others, and there shot himself. His people had brought wood for a fire, so that when he killed himself he might fall among the burning logs and thus prevent the Germans from finding his body. But his head fell slightly to one side, and when the Germans heard the shot and the words of the boy who had run away, they came and found him--dead. And they cut off his head. (1) (1) This was on July 19, 1898, nearly four years after the destru"	group conflict,enslavement_capture,military defeat,loss social position	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Mkwawa fled from his fort into the bush with only a few followers, and in the end his retinue was reduced to four people, two men and two women. And he said, ""I see that it is now time for me to die. Do you agree to accompany me?"" The women and one man agreed, but the other man only pretended to do so. Then Mkwawa killed his two wives and the first man, but the second ran away. Mkwawa chased him, but could not catch him, so he returned to the place where he had killed the others, and there shot himself. "	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	shooting,ask_someone_else	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	outgroup	na	na	Evidence for	both	x	No evidence		war,combat,witness violence,perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	polygyny	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	But his head fell slightly to one side, and when the Germans heard the shot and the words of the boy who had run away, they came and found him--dead. And they cut off his head. (1) (1) This was on July 19, 1898, nearly four years after the destruction	x	Evidence for	private	unknown	No evidence	low	documented_account
32	syme	Case	Bena	The course of the civil war has been outlined by Towegale. Sagamaganga was a man of violence if ever there was one, a born rebel, while the divisions in the tribe consequent on Kiwanga's matrimonial dilemma played into his hands. He was, it is alleged, a drug addict, and this largely accounted for his ungovernable rages and violent actions. He used a drug which is normally employed for stupefying fish* in the rivers, a little of which powerfully affects human beings. On one occasion, while under its influence, he tried to murder his wife, Senjenge, and actually succeeded in spearing her in the arm, and he apparently hanged ten young wives before committing suicide. Truly Sagamaganga and Semudodera and Senjenge were a remarkable trio! THE arrival of the Germans put a stop to the civil war, but the mere fact of the cessation of hostilities did not indicate the healing of the wounds in the tribe. Sagamaganga was far from willing to make peace, much less to admit Kiwanga's overlordship. When v. Prince called on him to bring his warriors to help in the campaign against Mkwawa in Uhehe he appeared as an independent chief, not as a subject of Kiwanga's.* The tribal historians tell how he went as bidden to the German station at Perondo and then with v. Prince into Uhehe, but he is alleged to have been found out in some double-dealing regarding cattle given into his care. In a rage, and to prevent public disgrace, he returned to Ifinga and killed himself with fish poison. Frau v. Prince, writing at Iringa on July 28, 1897, makes the following reference to his death, suggesting a different motive:	Evidence for	x	adult	The tribal historians tell how he went as bidden to the German station at Perondo and then with v. Prince into Uhehe, but he is alleged to have been found out in some double-dealing regarding cattle given into his care. In a rage, and to prevent public disgrace, he returned to Ifinga and killed himself with fish poison. Frau v. Prince, writing at Iringa on July 28, 1897, makes the following reference to his death, suggesting a different motive	accus_commit wrongdo	Evidence for	other	Evidence for	 The course of the civil war has been outlined by Towegale. Sagamaganga was a man of violence if ever there was one, a born rebel, while the divisions in the tribe consequent on Kiwanga's matrimonial dilemma played into his hands. 	na	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	substance abuse	Evidence for	poisoning	 In a rage, and to prevent public disgrace, he returned to Ifinga and killed himself with fish poison. 	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	adult	Outgroup	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		war,perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	He was, it is alleged, a drug addict, and this largely accounted for his ungovernable rages and violent actions. He used a drug which is normally employed for stupefying fish* in the rivers, a little of which powerfully affects human beings. On one occasion, while under its influence, he tried to murder his wife, Senjenge, and actually succeeded in spearing her in the arm, and he apparently hanged ten young wives before committing suicide. Truly Sagamaganga and Semudodera and Senjenge were a remarkable trio	4	It is said by the Wabena that Sagamaganga by himself, the [Page 77] son of a slave concubine, could not have acquired the following which enabled him to get so near his goal of usurping the position of his brother Kiwanga, and that his success was due to the support of Semudodera and her tambiko, without which men would not have dared to side with him against the Mtema. As it was, it was only his own foolish boasting about his mother which turned the tide of his success.	He was, it is alleged, a drug addict, and this largely accounted for his ungovernable rages and violent actions. He used a drug which is normally employed for stupefying fish* in the rivers, a little of which powerfully affects human beings. On one occasion, while under its influence, he tried to murder his wife, Senjenge, and actually succeeded in spearing her in the arm, and he apparently hanged ten young wives before committing suicide. Truly Sagamaganga and Semudodera and Senjenge were a remarkable trio	polygyny	unknown	"Sagamaganga was a man of violence if ever there was one, a born rebel, while the divisions in the tribe consequent on Kiwanga's matrimonial dilemma played into his hands. He was, it is alleged, a drug addict, and this largely accounted for his ungovernable rages and violent actions. He used a drug which is normally employed for stupefying fish* in the rivers, a little of which powerfully affects human beings. On one occasion, while under its influence, he tried to murder his wife, Senjenge, and actually succeeded in spearing her in the arm, and he apparently hanged ten young wives before committing suicide. 

In a rage, and to prevent public disgrace, he returned to Ifinga and killed himself with fish poison. "	x	x	x	not stated	1	"Sagamaganga was a man of violence if ever there was one, a born rebel, while the divisions in the tribe consequent on Kiwanga's matrimonial dilemma played into his hands. He was, it is alleged, a drug addict, and this largely accounted for his ungovernable rages and violent actions. He used a drug which is normally employed for stupefying fish* in the rivers, a little of which powerfully affects human beings. On one occasion, while under its influence, he tried to murder his wife, Senjenge, and actually succeeded in spearing her in the arm, and he apparently hanged ten young wives before committing suicide. 

In a rage, and to prevent public disgrace, he returned to Ifinga and killed himself with fish poison. "		x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	high	documented_account
34	zgarfield	Case	Ganda	The Fallers (in Bohannan 1960, p. 79) report that of 69 men in neighbouring Busoga who committed suicide in 1952-54, 8 were thought to have done so because of impotence.	No evidence	x	adult	8 were thought to have done so because of impotence.		No evidence	na	No evidence	8 were thought to have done so because of impotence.	na	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	female	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	other	x	2	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	>2	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence for		secondhand
34	syme	Case	Ganda	The Fallers (in Bohannan 1960, p. 79) report that of 69 men in neighbouring Busoga who committed suicide in 1952-54, 8 were thought to have done so because of impotence.	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	The Fallers (in Bohannan 1960, p. 79) report that of 69 men in neighbouring Busoga who committed suicide in 1952-54, 8 were thought to have done so because of impotence.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	other	x	1	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	8,rate	x	x	The Fallers (in Bohannan 1960, p. 79) report that of 69 men in neighbouring Busoga who committed suicide in 1952-54, 8 were thought to have done so because of impotence.	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
35	zgarfield	Cultural model	Ganda	An impotent man may commit suicide because he will no longer have any control over his wives who might well leave him. In such a case, of course it is possible that a depressive illness brings both the impotence and the suicide.	Evidence for	x	adult	An impotent man may commit suicide because he will no longer have any control over his wives who might well leave him.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	An impotent man may commit suicide because he will no longer have any control over his wives who might well leave him.	unknown	emic	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	depression	Evidence for	not stated	he will no longer have any control over his wives who might well leave him.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	female	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	severe	other	x		x	x		unknown	In such a case, of course it is possible that a depressive illness brings both the impotence and the suicide.	he will no longer have any control over his wives who might well leave him.	x	x	not stated	1	In such a case, of course it is possible that a depressive illness brings both the impotence and the suicide.	x	impotence, possibly depression 	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence for		firsthand
35	syme	Cultural model	Ganda	An impotent man may commit suicide because he will no longer have any control over his wives who might well leave him. In such a case, of course it is possible that a depressive illness brings both the impotence and the suicide.	No evidence	x	adult	An impotent man may commit suicide because he will no longer have any control over his wives who might well leave him. In such a case, of course it is possible that a depressive illness brings both the impotence and the suicide.	personal conflict,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	An impotent man may commit suicide because he will no longer have any control over his wives who might well leave him.	unknown	etic	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	depression	Evidence for	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	Wives	female	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence for		other	completion	x	No evidence	na	other	x	x	x	x	polygyny	no	In such a case, of course it is possible that a depressive illness brings both the impotence and the suicide.	x	x	x	no	x	In such a case, of course it is possible that a depressive illness brings both the impotence and the suicide.	x	An impotent man 	Evidence for	na	no	Evidence for	unknown	na
36	zgarfield	Case	Ganda	Bohannan (1963) reports on four tribes in Uganda, including the Basoga and Banyoro who are neighbours of the Baganda. Both share the abhorrence for suicide with the Baganda and treat it in similar ways. In Busoga out of 100 cases 20% were said to be due to chronic illness, excluding insanity and impotence, and the number is even greater amongst the Gisu.	Evidence for	x	adult	"In Busoga out of 100 cases 20% were said to be due to chronic illness, excluding insanity and impotence, and the number is even greater amongst the Gisu.
"		No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	In Busoga out of 100 cases 20% were said to be due to chronic illness, excluding insanity and impotence,	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	chronic	other chronic pain			x	xx		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	chronic illness, excluding insanity and impotence,	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		documented_account
36	syme	Case	Ganda	Bohannan (1963) reports on four tribes in Uganda, including the Basoga and Banyoro who are neighbours of the Baganda. Both share the abhorrence for suicide with the Baganda and treat it in similar ways. In Busoga out of 100 cases 20% were said to be due to chronic illness, excluding insanity and impotence, and the number is even greater amongst the Gisu.	Evidence for	x	unknown	In Busoga out of 100 cases 20% were said to be due to chronic illness, excluding insanity and impotence, and the number is even greater amongst the Gisu.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	chronic	unknown	x	1	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	20,rate	x	x	In Busoga out of 100 cases 20% were said to be due to chronic illness, excluding insanity and impotence, and the number is even greater amongst the Gisu.	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	documented_account
38	zgarfield	Cultural model	Ganda	...but Baganda also recognise that someone may kill himself after becoming angry as a result of a quarrel (Note 35). It is considered that some form of spirit must make a person kill him self. The act itself is thought to derive from the heart....The body of a suicide is feared, and in a sense suicide [p. 40] is treated as contagious in that no one of the same clan should touch the body lest its ghost enter him and he should also be tempted to commit suicide.	Evidence for	x	adult	someone may kill himself after becoming angry as a result of a quarrel	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	someone may kill himself after becoming angry as a result of a quarrel	fearfully	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	someone may kill himself after becoming angry	x	x	The body of a suicide is feared, and in a sense suicide [p. 40] is treated as contagious in that no one of the same clan should touch the body lest its ghost enter him and he should also be tempted to commit suicide.	yes	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		first person
38	syme	Cultural model	Ganda	...but Baganda also recognise that someone may kill himself after becoming angry as a result of a quarrel (Note 35). It is considered that some form of spirit must make a person kill him self. The act itself is thought to derive from the heart....The body of a suicide is feared, and in a sense suicide [p. 40] is treated as contagious in that no one of the same clan should touch the body lest its ghost enter him and he should also be tempted to commit suicide.	No evidence	...but Baganda also recognise that someone may kill himself after becoming angry as a result of a quarrel (Note 35). It is considered that some form of spirit must make a person kill him self. The act itself is thought to derive from the heart....The body of a suicide is feared, and in a sense suicide [p. 40] is treated as contagious in that no one of the same clan should touch the body lest its ghost enter him and he should also be tempted to commit suicide.	unknown	...but Baganda also recognise that someone may kill himself after becoming angry as a result of a quarrel (Note 35). It is considered that some form of spirit must make a person kill him self. 	personal conflict,spirit attack	No evidence	na	Evidence for	...but Baganda also recognise that someone may kill himself after becoming angry as a result of a quarrel (Note 35). 	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	 It is considered that some form of spirit must make a person kill him self. The act itself is thought to derive from the heart....The body of a suicide is feared, and in a sense suicide [p. 40] is treated as contagious in that no one of the same clan should touch the body lest its ghost enter him and he should also be tempted to commit suicide.	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	unknown	x	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	na	...but Baganda also recognise that someone may kill himself after becoming angry as a result of a quarrel (Note 35).  The act itself is thought to derive from the heart....	x	x	The body of a suicide is feared, and in a sense suicide [p. 40] is treated as contagious in that no one of the same clan should touch the body lest its ghost enter him and he should also be tempted to commit suicide.	not stated	x	x	The body of a suicide is feared, and in a sense suicide [p. 40] is treated as contagious in that no one of the same clan should touch the body lest its ghost enter him and he should also be tempted to commit suicide.	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
39	zgarfield	Case	Ganda	The Baganda were very superstitious about suicides. They took innumerable precautions to remove the body and destroy the ghost, to prevent the latter from causing further trouble. Shame for crime committed led to suicide, but this occurred rarely in any section of the community, and most rarely among women. When a man committed suicide, he hanged himself on a tree in his garden or in his house. In the former case the body was cut down, and the tree felled also; then both the tree and the corpse, the latter tied to a pole like the carcase of an animal, were taken to a distant place [p. 21] where cross-roads met, and the body was burned, the tree being used for the firewood. In the latter case the house was pulled down, and the materials were taken with the body and burned in the road. People feared to live in a house in which a suicide had taken place, lest they too should be tempted to commit the same crime. Those who burned the corpse washed their hands carefully at the place of burning with sponges made from the plantains, and threw them on the pyre. When women passed the place where a suicide had been burned, they threw grass or sticks upon the heap, to prevent the ghost from entering into them and being reborn. The idea in burning the body was if possible to destroy the ghost. (pg. 289) A suicide's body was burnt on waste land by the roadside, or at cross-roads, in order to destroy the ghost. If the suicide had not been a person of any consequence and his relatives did not claim his body, it was burnt to dust; if, however, he had been a person of some position, and his relatives claimed the body, it was first charred by fire before it was handed over to them. If the deed had been committed in a house, the house was also burnt; and if he had hanged himself on a tree, the tree was torn up by its roots and burnt with the body. In this way the ghost was thought to be destroyed, so that it could not tempt any other person to commit suicide. Everyone passing the spot where the body of a suicide had been burned took the precaution to throw some grass, or a few sticks, on the place, so as to prevent the ghost from catching him, in case it had not been destroyed.	No evidence	"The Baganda were very superstitious about suicides. They took innumerable precautions to remove the body and destroy the ghost, to prevent the latter from causing further trouble ...People feared to live in a house in which a suicide had taken place, lest they too should be tempted to commit the same crime

negative"	adult	Shame for crime committed led to suicide, but this occurred rarely in any section of the community, and most rarely among women. 	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	Shame for crime committed led to suicide, but this occurred rarely in any section of the community, and most rarely among women. 	fearfully	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	Shame for crime committed led to suicide,	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	No evidence	more often men		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	Shame for crime committed led to suicide,	x	x	In the former case the body was cut down, and the tree felled also; then both the tree and the corpse, the latter tied to a pole like the carcase of an animal, were taken to a distant place [p. 21] where cross-roads met, and the body was burned, the tree being used for the firewood. 	yes	1	x	x	x	No evidence	private	no	Evidence for		firsthand
39	syme	Case	Ganda	The Baganda were very superstitious about suicides. They took innumerable precautions to remove the body and destroy the ghost, to prevent the latter from causing further trouble. Shame for crime committed led to suicide, but this occurred rarely in any section of the community, and most rarely among women. When a man committed suicide, he hanged himself on a tree in his garden or in his house. In the former case the body was cut down, and the tree felled also; then both the tree and the corpse, the latter tied to a pole like the carcase of an animal, were taken to a distant place [p. 21] where cross-roads met, and the body was burned, the tree being used for the firewood. In the latter case the house was pulled down, and the materials were taken with the body and burned in the road. People feared to live in a house in which a suicide had taken place, lest they too should be tempted to commit the same crime. Those who burned the corpse washed their hands carefully at the place of burning with sponges made from the plantains, and threw them on the pyre. When women passed the place where a suicide had been burned, they threw grass or sticks upon the heap, to prevent the ghost from entering into them and being reborn. The idea in burning the body was if possible to destroy the ghost. (pg. 289) A suicide's body was burnt on waste land by the roadside, or at cross-roads, in order to destroy the ghost. If the suicide had not been a person of any consequence and his relatives did not claim his body, it was burnt to dust; if, however, he had been a person of some position, and his relatives claimed the body, it was first charred by fire before it was handed over to them. If the deed had been committed in a house, the house was also burnt; and if he had hanged himself on a tree, the tree was torn up by its roots and burnt with the body. In this way the ghost was thought to be destroyed, so that it could not tempt any other person to commit suicide. Everyone passing the spot where the body of a suicide had been burned took the precaution to throw some grass, or a few sticks, on the place, so as to prevent the ghost from catching him, in case it had not been destroyed.	No evidence	haunt living, cause others to commit suicide	unknown	Shame for crime committed led to suicide, but this occurred rarely in any section of the community, and most rarely among women. 	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	more often men	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	na	Shame for crime committed led to suicide, but this occurred rarely in any section of the community, and most rarely among women. 	x	x	The Baganda were very superstitious about suicides. They took innumerable precautions to remove the body and destroy the ghost, to prevent the latter from causing further trouble... When a man committed suicide, he hanged himself on a tree in his garden or in his house. In the former case the body was cut down, and the tree felled also; then both the tree and the corpse, the latter tied to a pole like the carcase of an animal, were taken to a distant place [p. 21] where cross-roads met, and the body was burned, the tree being used for the firewood. In the latter case the house was pulled down, and the materials were taken with the body and burned in the road. People feared to live in a house in which a suicide had taken place, lest they too should be tempted to commit the same crime. Those who burned the corpse washed their hands carefully at the place of burning with sponges made from the plantains, and threw them on the pyre. When women passed the place where a suicide had been burned, they threw grass or sticks upon the heap, to prevent the ghost from entering into them and being reborn. The idea in burning the body was if possible to destroy the ghost. (pg. 289) A suicide's body was burnt on waste land by the roadside, or at cross-roads, in order to destroy the ghost. If the suicide had not been a person of any consequence and his relatives did not claim his body, it was burnt to dust; if, however, he had been a person of some position, and his relatives claimed the body, it was first charred by fire before it was handed over to them. If the deed had been committed in a house, the house was also burnt; and if he had hanged himself on a tree, the tree was torn up by its roots and burnt with the body. In this way the ghost was thought to be destroyed, so that it could not tempt any other person to commit suicide. Everyone passing the spot where the body of a suicide had been burned took the precaution to throw some grass, or a few sticks, on the place, so as to prevent the ghost from catching him, in case it had not been destroyed.	yes	x	x	The Baganda were very superstitious about suicides. They took innumerable precautions to remove the body and destroy the ghost, to prevent the latter from causing further trouble... In the former case the body was cut down, and the tree felled also; then both the tree and the corpse, the latter tied to a pole like the carcase of an animal, were taken to a distant place [p. 21] where cross-roads met, and the body was burned, the tree being used for the firewood. In the latter case the house was pulled down, and the materials were taken with the body and burned in the road. People feared to live in a house in which a suicide had taken place, lest they too should be tempted to commit the same crime. Those who burned the corpse washed their hands carefully at the place of burning with sponges made from the plantains, and threw them on the pyre. When women passed the place where a suicide had been burned, they threw grass or sticks upon the heap, to prevent the ghost from entering into them and being reborn. The idea in burning the body was if possible to destroy the ghost. (pg. 289) A suicide's body was burnt on waste land by the roadside, or at cross-roads, in order to destroy the ghost. If the suicide had not been a person of any consequence and his relatives did not claim his body, it was burnt to dust; if, however, he had been a person of some position, and his relatives claimed the body, it was first charred by fire before it was handed over to them. If the deed had been committed in a house, the house was also burnt; and if he had hanged himself on a tree, the tree was torn up by its roots and burnt with the body. In this way the ghost was thought to be destroyed, so that it could not tempt any other person to commit suicide. Everyone passing the spot where the body of a suicide had been burned took the precaution to throw some grass, or a few sticks, on the place, so as to prevent the ghost from catching him, in case it had not been destroyed.	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
41	zgarfield	Cultural model	Hausa	Informants related that in pre-British days, complete deadlock between a girl and her parents concerning the choice of a husband for her first marriage was very rare, but if it occurred was resolved by the girl's throwing herself down a well--the only instances of suicide which were encountered, despite continual enquiry.	No evidence	x	adult	complete deadlock between a girl and her parents concerning the choice of a husband for her first marriage	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	complete deadlock between a girl and her parents concerning the choice of a husband for her first marriage	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	popular	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping	x	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		no	x	Informants related that in pre-British days, complete deadlock between a girl and her parents concerning the choice of a husband for her first marriage was very rare, but if it occurred was resolved by the girl's throwing herself down a well	x	x	not stated	1	x	was resolved by the girl's throwing herself down a well	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence for		na
41	syme	Cultural model	Hausa	Informants related that in pre-British days, complete deadlock between a girl and her parents concerning the choice of a husband for her first marriage was very rare, but if it occurred was resolved by the girl's throwing herself down a well--the only instances of suicide which were encountered, despite continual enquiry.	No evidence	x	young adult	complete deadlock between a girl and her parents concerning the choice of a husband for her first marriage was very rare, but if it occurred was resolved by the girl's throwing herself down a well--the only instances of suicide which were encountered, despite continual enquiry.	personal conflict	No evidence	na	Evidence for	complete deadlock between a girl and her parents concerning the choice of a husband for her first marriage was very rare, but if it occurred was resolved by the girl's throwing herself down a well--the only instances of suicide which were encountered, despite continual enquiry.	unknown	emic	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	jumping,drowning	"but if it occurred was resolved by the girl's throwing herself down a well--the only instances of suicide which were encountered, despite continual enquiry.

no motive"	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	public	no	No evidence	unknown	na
42	syme	Case	Igbo	Eze Okigbo, the 'big man' in Nnobi at the time, had heard shocking stories about the activities of White men and had sworn never to set eyes on them. He therefore declined to meet them when they invaded Nnobi, and was consequently taken by force to the central market-place and publicly whipped. He went back to his obi, took poison and died.	Evidence for	x	adult	Eze Okigbo, the 'big man' in Nnobi at the time, had heard shocking stories about the activities of White men and had sworn never to set eyes on them. He therefore declined to meet them when they invaded Nnobi, and was consequently taken by force to the central market-place and publicly whipped.	other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Eze Okigbo, the 'big man' in Nnobi at the time, had heard shocking stories about the activities of White men and had sworn never to set eyes on them. He therefore declined to meet them when they invaded Nnobi, and was consequently taken by force to the central market-place and publicly whipped. He went back to his obi, took poison and died.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	poisoning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	outgroup	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		war	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	high,unknown	unknown
43	syme	Case	Igbo	Bridegroom Commits Suicide It was a tragic end of a marriage ceremony, at Umunze in Aguata local government area of Anambra State, over the weekend, when a 30-year old bridegroom committed suicide, on the eve of his traditional marriage ceremony. The man from Umucheke quarters of Ururo village, Umunze, had on the fateful Saturday morning, given his elder brother some 1500 naira [Nigerian currency, then exchanging at a rate of 3 naira: 1 US dollar] being the bride price he intended paying during the ceremony. The elder brother, in expressing his happiness over the marriage, asked his deceased younger brother to keep back his money and that as he was taking a position as the father, he would pay the bride price. Arrangement concluded, the deceased went to take his bath while his friends who would accompany him to the bride's house waited. As the man stayed longer at the 'bathroom,' the people forced the door open only to find the man hanging from the top of the roof. 'Daily Star' also gathered that, at the time of this discovery, the bride's family had concluded their own arrangements to welcome the suitor and his relations. Some elders who spoke to the 'Star' alleged that the deceased had been warned against the marriage because he had a wife of 'mermaid' contracted inside the water before his birth, but the man's relations did not believe. Also, his mother who owns a spiritual church in the area had allegedly assured the son of deliverance from the 'mermaid.' It was also gathered that the man went insane when he attempted to marry some years ago. He was cured but the marriage negotiations collapsed. --'Our Correspondent,' Daily Star (Nov. 16, 1987) This version of the male water marriage story is interesting for several reasons; notably that it combines elements of local, patrilineal culture (the interchange between senior and junior brother) with newer social and religious arrangements (the suicide's mother 'owns' a spiritual church and purports to exercise control over mermaids).16 In the first part of the story, the would-be bridegroom demonstrates his responsibility to his lineage senior by offering to pay a large sum of bridewealth. Considering what is revealed about his previous problems with marriage in the last paragraph, this gesture is not an empty one; it denotes a commitment to go through with the marriage for its own sake as well as for that of the lineage. The senior brother ('taking a position as the father') returns his younger brother's contribution and insists [p. 128] upon paying the bridewealth himself; showing that the marriage is of corporate, not only individual interest. It is also a token of corporate confidence in the ability of a lineage mate to get on successfully with the important business of marriage and the extension of the patrilineal compound. This is surely important, since we know that the younger brother has not been able to fulfill these lineage obligations previously. His elder brother is not only acting in loco parentis but telling his sibling that he is willing to display his confidence in the marriage before their (possibly nervous) future in-laws. (17) This confidence, as we see, is misplaced. Suicide is considered by Igbo-speaking peoples to be one of three unforgivable nso ani (abominations against the earth), along with wilful murder and stealing. Suicide is a shameful, public death that pollutes the entire lineage--necessitating, in the past, the destruction of the patrilineage compound and other property, as well as exile for lineage members. Hanging himself in the 'bathroom' is especially evocative: the erring 'wife' of a water spirit kills himself during his last connection with water and purification, just before he is to betray his mermaid with a human woman. Whether he 'met' the spirit in the bathroom when he poured out water in a basin--one of the ways that diviners 'call' Mami Wata into the world of human beings--or whether his impending state as 'wife' to a powerful spirit and husband to a human wife was simply too much of a contradictory one to bear, he was evidently forced into taking the tragic step. I rather think it was the poetic quality of the suicide (and the mermaid's revenge) that earned the story its front page status in the Daily Star. Instead of becoming ritually purified and prepared to step into one of the most important roles of an Igbo man, helping to extend the lineage through time and space, the bridegroom became nso (abominable) and effectively ended his participation in any lineage future. A suicide cannot become an ancestral force; in an older era, his body would be taken out and placed by strangers in ofia ojoo, 'the bad bush,' to decay ignominously with other evil objects and bodies. Although his Christianity might save him from this fate in late 1980s Nigeria, his body would still be treated without the respect accorded to that of a person who had died married and who could be buried properly by his wife and (especially) his children. And, as we have seen, his death could not even be kept private, but became a public spectacle for traders to talk about in the Onitsha and Enugu marketplaces--and for anthropologists to write about, as well. One fascinating twist to the suicidal bridegroom's tale is the importance of women in his life and death. It seems that he is caught between [p. 129] two spiritual forces: his mermaid spouse and his evangelical mother. In some sense, the story is really about two women--one a human, the other a spiritual force--testing their powers against each other through the person of a young man. I have argued elsewhere (Bastian 1992, chapter 3) that young men in contemporary Igbo society are often caught and used as pawns in esoteric battles waged by (usually male) elders, but there is another, well-known Igbo familial conflict echoed here--that between mother and daughter-in-law. As in most patrilineal societies where wives remain 'strangers' in their husband's lineage, a good deal of a woman's power in Igbo must be exercised either through her husband or her sons. Since husbands may have several wives or unofficial female spouses, maintaining control over a son can be less taxing than trying to hold sway over a fickle spouse. And, of course, the ideology of deference to husbands requires Igbo-speaking women to exercise great subtlety and tact in imposing their wills over those of their spouses. Controlling a son is both simpler and more rewarding over time; the husband is likely to die, and his authority can pass to his wife's male children. But there is always a potential fly in the mother's carefully tended ointment. The person who most threatens uterine authority is the daughter-in-law, the new woman/stranger in the lineage compound with a vested interest in the older woman's son. In the case above, where the daughter-in-law is a powerful, capricious spiritual force (and not even a girl who could be bullied or cajoled into submission), she offers more of a threat to her mother-in-law than might usually be expected. The mother and daughter-in-law struggle covertly outlined in the newspaper article was, perhaps, more grim than most--after all, we are told that the young man was married in the water 'before birth,' that he was, in effect, an ogbaanje mmili. His mother was thus faced with a mature and dangerous daughter-in-law almost before she had solidified her own position in her marital household, much less in her son's emotional life. The newspaper account is not detailed enough to give us the mother's biography, but I would not be surprised to learn that her interest in spiritual churches dated from the time when she discovered that her child had contracted a water marriage. Certainly she had every motivation not only to embrace charismatic Christianity but to master its secrets: her hold over an important part of her uterine family depended on it. Towards the end of her son's life, she was even willing to take on a human female rival--encouraging her son to marry outside of the water--in the (losing) battle against her mermaid in-law. This, too, has [p.130] its precedents in the annals of Igbo mothering, since an upstart daughter-in-law can often be deflated by bringing in a younger wife. Several women of my acquaintance in the late 1980s found their marital positions of power subverted by a clever, matchmaking mother-in-law. (18) Mami Wata and her kin are not so easily diminished, however. After driving her human spouse mad in punishment for the first offense--but then evidently relenting and allowing him to be 'cured'--the spirit took more direct action on the second. Dying before he could marry or sire children, the young bridegroom was separated out forever from his lineage; he cannot reincarnate as a human being; he becomes a wild, troublesome spirit who can never be satisfied. In short, he becomes more like his onye mmili (water spirit) wife and is lost to his mother (and his patriline) permanently. This Daily Star story was much discussed in the Onitsha markets where I did my fieldwork. The consensus among youthful male traders who make up the majority population in the market system was that the suicidal bridegroom 'did well' in trying to escape from his water spouse--but that his family was wrong to disbelieve in the mermaid's power. People working in markets are thought particularly susceptible to spiritual influence, since spiritual forces are drawn to the marketplace, and these traders believed very firmly in the existence of seductive mami watas and unquiet human ghosts. (19) They had little difficulty in believing that a man's water marriage was bound to conflict with his duties to his lineage and family life. After all, those who married to suit themselves in urban Onitsha were often accused of bringing in to their own lineages, at the very least, bad influences--and sometimes dangerous witches or spirit wives. Those traders divorced or separated from their 'city wives' were sometimes unsure whether their town elders (or mothers) were not correct in the assessment. At any rate, they had all experienced the desire of 'modern girls' for luxury goods, money, and monogamy (or sexual exclusiveness), and they equated that modernity with peril. Young male traders saw the world as being full of potential mermaids, and they took the newspaper account's lessons to heart: men caught up in the battles of women rarely profit. Even male kin solidarity cannot secure male fortune when the 'strangers' in their midst begin to make trouble. Notes (16). Mami Wata is often depicted in the iconography as a mermaid. Because of this, speakers of Nigerian English tend to refer to Mami Wata or, indeed, to any water spirit as a mermaid. (17). 'Traditional' ceremonies, also known in Nigerian English as 'wine-carryings,' do not generally take place unless the personal histories and family connections of both parties have been thoroughly investigated. A young man who has 'gone insane' at a previous wedding would not look to be the best possible candidate for alliance. We may speculate that a good deal of negotiation that is not discussed in the newspaper account must have occurred before the wine-carrying could go forward. (18). An African-American woman I knew in Port Harcourt became an unknowing senior wife in her own household when her mother-in-law brought her a new 'maid' to help out after the birth of a child. Some months later the maid was revealed to be pregnant as well--and maid, husband, and mother-in-law confessed that the mother-in-law paid the 'maid's' bridewealth before her 'employment' began. (19). Afia, or the Igbo marketplace, is the most open of spaces. Igbo-speaking peoples think that everyone and everything in the world eventually passes through their markets, and, indeed, the whole world may be thought of as a marketplace. One consequence of this understanding of the market's importance is that humans who frequent the markets inevitably come in contact with spirits. Spirits 'can't make things,' as one trader explained to me, but they are attracted to the things created by human beings--as well as by the spectacle of human life itself. They come to the marketplace to buy, steal, and barter with their human counterparts; they also come simply to watch people going about their business.	No evidence	negative	adult	It was a tragic end of a marriage ceremony, at Umunze in Aguata local government area of Anambra State, over the weekend, when a 30-year old bridegroom committed suicide, on the eve of his traditional marriage ceremony. The man from Umucheke quarters of Ururo village, Umunze, had on the fateful Saturday morning, given his elder brother some 1500 naira [Nigerian currency, then exchanging at a rate of 3 naira: 1 US dollar] being the bride price he intended paying during the ceremony. The elder brother, in expressing his happiness over the marriage, asked his deceased younger brother to keep back his money and that as he was taking a position as the father, he would pay the bride price. Arrangement concluded, the deceased went to take his bath while his friends who would accompany him to the bride's house waited.	personal conflict,spirit attack,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"The man from Umucheke quarters of Ururo village, Umunze, had on the fateful Saturday morning, given his elder brother some 1500 naira [Nigerian currency, then exchanging at a rate of 3 naira: 1 US dollar] being the bride price he intended paying during the ceremony. The elder brother, in expressing his happiness over the marriage, asked his deceased younger brother to keep back his money and that as he was taking a position as the father, he would pay the bride price.

The senior brother ('taking a position as the father') returns his younger brother's contribution and insists [p. 128] upon paying the bridewealth himself; showing that the marriage is of corporate, not only individual interest. It is also a token of corporate confidence in the ability of a lineage mate to get on successfully with the important business of marriage and the extension of the patrilineal compound.

One fascinating twist to the suicidal bridegroom's tale is the importance of women in his life and death. It seems that he is caught between [p. 129] two spiritual forces: his mermaid spouse and his evangelical mother. In some sense, the story is really about two women--one a human, the other a spiritual force--testing their powers against each other through the person of a young man. I have argued elsewhere (Bastian 1992, chapter 3) that young men in contemporary Igbo society are often caught and used as pawns in esoteric battles waged by (usually male) elders, but there is another, well-known Igbo familial conflict echoed here--that between mother and daughter-in-law. As in most patrilineal societies where wives remain 'strangers' in their husband's lineage, a good deal of a woman's power in Igbo must be exercised either through her husband or her sons. "	disapprovingly	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	unknown	Evidence for	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	kin	both	na	No evidence	male	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	A suicide cannot become an ancestral force; in an older era, his body would be taken out and placed by strangers in ofia ojoo, 'the bad bush,' to decay ignominously with other evil objects and bodies. Although his Christianity might save him from this fate in late 1980s Nigeria, his body would still be treated without the respect accorded to that of a person who had died married and who could be buried properly by his wife and (especially) his children.	yes	1	It was also gathered that the man went insane when he attempted to marry some years ago. He was cured but the marriage negotiations collapsed. --'Our Correspondent,' Daily Star (Nov. 16, 1987)	As the man stayed longer at the 'bathroom,' the people forced the door open only to find the man hanging from the top of the roof.	x	Evidence for	private	no	No evidence	unknown	documented_account
44	syme	Case	Igbo	The continuous line of Obis descended from Obi Chimedie gives the impression that this lineage virtually controlled the succession and had converted it into one of descent from father to son; tradition does not relate whether at the successions of these Obis other lines in Umuezearoli and Umudei put forward any candidates. Then, on the death of Obi Akazue, a conflict arose over the succession which ended in civil war. The two candidates were both from Umuezearoli, namely Diali, the son of Obi Akazue of the line of Chimedie, and Enendu of the collateral line of Diakanyo. The Chimedie line could represent Enendu's claim as contravening the convention of descent from father to son and as an attempt to weaken the unity of the Umuezearoli dynasty as against the opposing dynasty of Umudei, and they asked Enendu to withdraw in the interests of dynastic unity. It would have been more politic for Enendu to have done so but he refused and claimed the right as a descendant of Ezechima to contest the Obiship. This led to the civil war. The majority of Onitsha people supported Diali, who emerged the victor but died soon after. The Diakanyo lineage lost many lives in the fighting and were in no position to recontest the succession. Holding Enendu responsible for their losses, they told him to commit suicide, which he did, and Diali was succeeded by his brother Anazonwu.	Evidence for	x	elderly	 The continuous line of Obis descended from Obi Chimedie gives the impression that this lineage virtually controlled the succession and had converted it into one of descent from father to son; tradition does not relate whether at the successions of these Obis other lines in Umuezearoli and Umudei put forward any candidates. Then, on the death of Obi Akazue, a conflict arose over the succession which ended in civil war. The two candidates were both from Umuezearoli, namely Diali, the son of Obi Akazue of the line of Chimedie, and Enendu of the collateral line of Diakanyo. The Chimedie line could represent Enendu's claim as contravening the convention of descent from father to son and as an attempt to weaken the unity of the Umuezearoli dynasty as against the opposing dynasty of Umudei, and they asked Enendu to withdraw in the interests of dynastic unity. It would have been more politic for Enendu to have done so but he refused and claimed the right as a descendant of Ezechima to contest the Obiship. This led to the civil war. The majority of Onitsha people supported Diali, who emerged the victor but died soon after. The Diakanyo lineage lost many lives in the fighting and were in no position to recontest the succession. Holding Enendu responsible for their losses, they told him to commit suicide, which he did, and Diali was succeeded by his brother Anazonwu.	group conflict,accus_commit wrongdo,military defeat,loss social position	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The two candidates were both from Umuezearoli, namely Diali, the son of Obi Akazue of the line of Chimedie, and Enendu of the collateral line of Diakanyo. The Chimedie line could represent Enendu's claim as contravening the convention of descent from father to son and as an attempt to weaken the unity of the Umuezearoli dynasty as against the opposing dynasty of Umudei, and they asked Enendu to withdraw in the interests of dynastic unity.	approvingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	political opponents 	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		war,perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	unknown	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	high	unknown
45	zgarfield	Case	Kanuri	Other informants tell stories of men demeaning themselves because of their emotional involvement with a particular woman. These stories usually involve a wife who has run away to her luwali or is threatening to do so. The man then spends all his money on gifts for her, hoping to make her stay--but she still leaves. In one such story, the man finally went to the Emir and said he was going to commit suicide (an almost unheard of thing in Bornu) unless he could get his wife to return. (The traditionally legal way to do this is for the Shehu [Emir] to declare the woman to be his own slave, thereby depriving her of any legal rights--then the Shehu gives the wife as a gift to her former husband.)	No evidence	x	adult	The man then spends all his money on gifts for her, hoping to make her stay--but she still leaves. In one such story, the man finally went to the Emir and said he was going to commit suicide (an almost unheard of thing in Bornu) unless he could get his wife to return. 	rejection	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The man then spends all his money on gifts for her, hoping to make her stay--but she still leaves. I	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	In one such story, the man finally went to the Emir and said he was going to commit suicide (an almost unheard of thing in Bornu) unless he could get his wife to return. 	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	female	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		unknown	x	In one such story, the man finally went to the Emir and said he was going to commit suicide (an almost unheard of thing in Bornu) unless he could get his wife to return. 	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	Evidence for		secondhand
45	syme	Case	Kanuri	Other informants tell stories of men demeaning themselves because of their emotional involvement with a particular woman. These stories usually involve a wife who has run away to her luwali or is threatening to do so. The man then spends all his money on gifts for her, hoping to make her stay--but she still leaves. In one such story, the man finally went to the Emir and said he was going to commit suicide (an almost unheard of thing in Bornu) unless he could get his wife to return. (The traditionally legal way to do this is for the Shehu [Emir] to declare the woman to be his own slave, thereby depriving her of any legal rights--then the Shehu gives the wife as a gift to her former husband.)	No evidence	x	adult	Other informants tell stories of men demeaning themselves because of their emotional involvement with a particular woman. These stories usually involve a wife who has run away to her luwali or is threatening to do so. The man then spends all his money on gifts for her, hoping to make her stay--but she still leaves. In one such story, the man finally went to the Emir and said he was going to commit suicide (an almost unheard of thing in Bornu) unless he could get his wife to return. 	personal conflict	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Other informants tell stories of men demeaning themselves because of their emotional involvement with a particular woman. These stories usually involve a wife who has run away to her luwali or is threatening to do so. The man then spends all his money on gifts for her, hoping to make her stay--but she still leaves. In one such story, the man finally went to the Emir and said he was going to commit suicide (an almost unheard of thing in Bornu) unless he could get his wife to return. 	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	 In one such story, the man finally went to the Emir and said he was going to commit suicide (an almost unheard of thing in Bornu) unless he could get his wife to return. )	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	wife	female	na	No evidence	male	law enforcer, wife	No evidence		other	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	unknown	Other informants tell stories of men demeaning themselves because of their emotional involvement with a particular woman. 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	public	no	Evidence for	unknown	unknown
46	zgarfield	Cultural model	Libyan Bedouin	Women have less recourse against tyrannical fathers or guardians, but various informal means to resist the imposition of unwanted decisions do exist. As a last resort there is always suicide, and I heard of a number of both young men and women who committed suicide in desperate resistance to their fathers' decisions, especially regarding marriage.	No evidence	x	adult	I heard of a number of both young men and women who committed suicide in desperate resistance to their fathers' decisions, especially regarding marriage.		No evidence	na	Evidence for	I heard of a number of both young men and women who committed suicide in desperate resistance to their fathers' decisions, especially regarding marriage.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	popular	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	I heard of a number of both young men and women who committed suicide in desperate resistance to their fathers' decisions, especially regarding marriage.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	male	na	No evidence	both		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	I heard of a number of both young men and women who committed suicide in desperate resistance to their fathers' decisions, especially regarding marriage.	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	na	no	Evidence for		first person
46	syme	Cultural model	Libyan Bedouin	Women have less recourse against tyrannical fathers or guardians, but various informal means to resist the imposition of unwanted decisions do exist. As a last resort there is always suicide, and I heard of a number of both young men and women who committed suicide in desperate resistance to their fathers' decisions, especially regarding marriage.	No evidence	x	young adult	 I heard of a number of both young men and women who committed suicide in desperate resistance to their fathers' decisions, especially regarding marriage	personal conflict,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 I heard of a number of both young men and women who committed suicide in desperate resistance to their fathers' decisions, especially regarding marriage	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	 in desperate resistance to their fathers' decisions, especially regarding marriage	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	father	male	na	No evidence	more often women	father	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
48	zgarfield	Case	Lozi	Suicides and Attempted Suicides These numbered 27, and were distributed between the four districts in much the same proportions as were the witchcraft cases. Only one attempt proved unsuccessful; whether this was because of the method chosen or whether other failures passed unnoticed is unknown. All but one of the cases occurred in the home district of the person concerned, and all cases concerned Barotse residents, not foreigners. There was a fairly even balance between the sexes, 15 males and 12 females. Possibly, the high proportion of females may be taken to mean that mest accusations were of practising black rather than white magic. The number of headmen involved amounted to 7 per cent, rather a low figure but probably because the sample was small. No chiefs orindunas , and only 2 headmen, were involved. The remaining cases concerned ordinary villagers, neither employees nor independent businessmen. All but three of the suicides are known to have acted through fear of being accused of, or arrested for witchcraft practices. The rest probably feared such arrest...That the desire for escape from what must have appeared an impossible situation was very strong, is shown by the fact that seven of the intending suicides escaped from custody in order to kill themselves. The number of suicides that occurred during and perhaps as a result of the investigations serves to emphasize the importance of magic and witchcraft in the everyday life of the African. One may conclude that, while the disturbance created by the investigations has long since died down, accusations of witchcraft still continue to be made and that, beneath the apparently calm surface, there is a turmoil of activity, of suspicions and fears that cannot be quieted or controlled by means of normal legal processes.	No evidence	x	adult	All but three of the suicides are known to have acted through fear of being accused of, or arrested for witchcraft practices. 		No evidence	na	Evidence for	The rest probably feared such arrest...That the desire for escape from what must have appeared an impossible situation was very strong, is shown by the fact that seven of the intending suicides escaped from custody in order to kill themselves. 	na	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	political power	na	na	No evidence	both		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	desire for escape		na	 fear of being accused of, or arrested for witchcraft practices	That the desire for escape from what must have appeared an impossible situation was very strong, is shown by the fact that seven of the intending suicides escaped from custody in order to kill themselves. 	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	private	no	Evidence for		firsthand
48	syme	Case	Lozi	Suicides and Attempted Suicides These numbered 27, and were distributed between the four districts in much the same proportions as were the witchcraft cases. Only one attempt proved unsuccessful; whether this was because of the method chosen or whether other failures passed unnoticed is unknown. All but one of the cases occurred in the home district of the person concerned, and all cases concerned Barotse residents, not foreigners. There was a fairly even balance between the sexes, 15 males and 12 females. Possibly, the high proportion of females may be taken to mean that mest accusations were of practising black rather than white magic. The number of headmen involved amounted to 7 per cent, rather a low figure but probably because the sample was small. No chiefs orindunas , and only 2 headmen, were involved. The remaining cases concerned ordinary villagers, neither employees nor independent businessmen. All but three of the suicides are known to have acted through fear of being accused of, or arrested for witchcraft practices. The rest probably feared such arrest...That the desire for escape from what must have appeared an impossible situation was very strong, is shown by the fact that seven of the intending suicides escaped from custody in order to kill themselves. The number of suicides that occurred during and perhaps as a result of the investigations serves to emphasize the importance of magic and witchcraft in the everyday life of the African. One may conclude that, while the disturbance created by the investigations has long since died down, accusations of witchcraft still continue to be made and that, beneath the apparently calm surface, there is a turmoil of activity, of suspicions and fears that cannot be quieted or controlled by means of normal legal processes.	No evidence		unknown	All but three of the suicides are known to have acted through fear of being accused of, or arrested for witchcraft practices. The rest probably feared such arrest...	enslavement_capture,accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x		na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	That the desire for escape from what must have appeared an impossible situation was very strong, is shown by the fact that seven of the intending suicides escaped from custody in order to kill themselves.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	both	x	No evidence		no evidence	attempt,completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x	witchcraft		x	x	x			26,rate	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	average,low	unknown
51	zgarfield	Case	Mbuti	The demonstration of grief that followed was no mere formal expression ordained by custom; it was something very real and disturbing. I have seen death in a Negro village where the atmosphere was one of fear--fear of sorcery, of the power of evil that had been unleashed. Here it was quite different. It was not a feeling of [p. 49] fear, but a recognition of the completeness of a loss that could never be made good. There was a finality and terrible emptiness in old Balekimito's death which could not be answered, for which there was no explanation, not even through sorcery or witchcraft. For the moment it seemed that the Pygmies, faced with the death of an old and well-loved and respected person such as this old lady, had nothing to cling to, and I was genuinely afraid that some of them would come to harm. Young and old alike crowded around the house, trying to force their way to Balekimito's deathbed. They were even fighting to get in, and once inside they fought to get out. At one point several children came flying out in a frenzy and threw themselves onto the ground, beating it with their arms and legs, kicking and biting at anyone who tried to comfort them. Inside, the commotion was even worse--Asofalinda, looking almost as old as her dead mother, had put a noose around her neck and seemed to be trying to strangle herself, full of remorse at having let her mother die. It took three men to take the noose from her neck, and when they finally tore it from her she ran outside and collapsed on the ground, sobbing her heart out. Inside, the commotion was even worse--Asofalinda, looking almost as old as her dead mother, had put a noose around her neck and seemed to be trying to strangle herself, full of remorse at having let her mother die. It took three men to take the noose from her neck, and when they finally tore it from her she ran outside and collapsed on the ground, sobbing her heart out.	No evidence	x	adult	Asofalinda, looking almost as old as her dead mother, had put a noose around her neck and seemed to be trying to strangle herself, full of remorse at having let her mother die.	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	na	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	female	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	death of a loved one	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		na	full of remorse	Asofalinda, looking almost as old as her dead mother, had put a noose around her neck and seemed to be trying to strangle herself, full of remorse at having let her mother die.	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	no	Evidence for		first person
51	syme	Case	Mbuti	The demonstration of grief that followed was no mere formal expression ordained by custom; it was something very real and disturbing. I have seen death in a Negro village where the atmosphere was one of fear--fear of sorcery, of the power of evil that had been unleashed. Here it was quite different. It was not a feeling of [p. 49] fear, but a recognition of the completeness of a loss that could never be made good. There was a finality and terrible emptiness in old Balekimito's death which could not be answered, for which there was no explanation, not even through sorcery or witchcraft. For the moment it seemed that the Pygmies, faced with the death of an old and well-loved and respected person such as this old lady, had nothing to cling to, and I was genuinely afraid that some of them would come to harm. Young and old alike crowded around the house, trying to force their way to Balekimito's deathbed. They were even fighting to get in, and once inside they fought to get out. At one point several children came flying out in a frenzy and threw themselves onto the ground, beating it with their arms and legs, kicking and biting at anyone who tried to comfort them. Inside, the commotion was even worse--Asofalinda, looking almost as old as her dead mother, had put a noose around her neck and seemed to be trying to strangle herself, full of remorse at having let her mother die. It took three men to take the noose from her neck, and when they finally tore it from her she ran outside and collapsed on the ground, sobbing her heart out. Inside, the commotion was even worse--Asofalinda, looking almost as old as her dead mother, had put a noose around her neck and seemed to be trying to strangle herself, full of remorse at having let her mother die. It took three men to take the noose from her neck, and when they finally tore it from her she ran outside and collapsed on the ground, sobbing her heart out.	No evidence	x	adult	Inside, the commotion was even worse--Asofalinda, looking almost as old as her dead mother, had put a noose around her neck and seemed to be trying to strangle herself, full of remorse at having let her mother die. It took three men to take the noose from her neck, and when they finally tore it from her she ran outside and collapsed on the ground, sobbing her heart out.	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	female	kin and social group	Evidence for		other	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x	x	unknown	full of remorse at having let her mother die... sobbing her heart out.	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	It took three men to take the noose from her neck, and when they finally tore it from her she ran outside and collapsed on the ground, sobbing her heart out.	x	No evidence	public	no	No evidence	average,unknown	firsthand
52	syme	Case	Nuer	Whether the family of the wife will support her depends on a variety of circumstances and a combination of all matters which are conventionally regarded as grounds for divorce. They may agree with her if her husband not only persistently ill-treats her but also is lax in his duties towards them or does not approach them with the respect (thek) which is due to relatives-in-law. If he has paid substantial bridewealth for her, it is, of course, in their interests that the marriage should continue, but this may be outweighed by other considerations. It is their desire too that a daughter of the house should have children, though their feeling in this respect is not so intense as that of the husband's family. Her children, although legally placed in the patrilineal lineage of their father, will be an asset to the maternal line. We have seen that in the marriage a substantial part of the bridewealth goes to the maternal kin, and the matter of the husband's potency is therefore of practical concern to them. Moreover the final consideration which will often compel them to seek a divorce, whatever the difficulties and inconveniences to themselves, is the fear that she will run away to some other part of the country, in which case they may lose not only the cattle of this marriage but the possibility of getting others from her remarriage. In extreme cases she may even commit suicide. (1) (1) This is not common, but I have known several cases, and in one instance a woman attempted to hang herself from a tree under which I was sitting in an official capacity. The intention, however, may not have been serious, but merely to draw my attention to her grievances.	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	Moreover the final consideration which will often compel them to seek a divorce, whatever the difficulties and inconveniences to themselves, is the fear that she will run away to some other part of the country, in which case they may lose not only the cattle of this marriage but the possibility of getting others from her remarriage. In extreme cases she may even commit suicide. (1) (1) 	personal conflict	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Moreover the final consideration which will often compel them to seek a divorce, whatever the difficulties and inconveniences to themselves, is the fear that she will run away to some other part of the country, in which case they may lose not only the cattle of this marriage but the possibility of getting others from her remarriage. In extreme cases she may even commit suicide. (1) (1) 	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	hanging	but I have known several cases, and in one instance a woman attempted to hang herself from a tree under which I was sitting in an official capacity. The intention, however, may not have been serious, but merely to draw my attention to her grievances.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	kin,affines,husband	na	na	No evidence	female	ethnographer	Evidence against		no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	public	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	firsthand
53	syme	Case	Ovimbundu	The quarrel had begun with the proposed marriage of Anna, a step-daughter of Guilherme, and a member of his household, to Luciano, a son of the former chief Simbwyikoka and an inhabitant of the latter's village. Guilherme had no effective religious affiliation but Anna had been baptized as a Catholic, her godmother being Maria, the wife of Paulo. Luciano on the other hand was the elder of the Protestant catechetical school in Simbwyikoka village. Paulo therefore intervened to stop the marriage in accordance with the rule made by the Catholic missions against marriage with non-Catholics.... Towards the end of the argument Luciano (the former fianc of Anna) and Jeremias (the Protestant catechist from Simbwyikoka) came to the priest to ask for the repayment of the bridewealth. On the 25th Lusase, the chief of Gumba, happened to visit [p. 131] Epalanga. Told what had happened, he said that he would keep out of it, and that he had advised Guilherme to live elsewhere. In the afternoon of the same day, as heavy rain was falling, a number of people ran up and bounded on to my veranda. These included Anna, another girl (I think a sister of hers) both rather frightened, Simbwyikoka, Luciano, Paulo and some others. Anna said that Simbwyikoka was a sorcerer (3) and would kill her, and sooner than be killed by sorcery she would jump in the river. Simbwyikoka and Luciano had come to Epalanga to try and recover the 250 escudos which had been paid over in bridewealth. The catechist tried to intervene saying 'The catechist is the chief4 of everybody in the village', but nobody paid any attention to him. Eventually, as the girl continued to threaten to jump in the river, I contributed 200 escudos, and so those involved left satisfied.	No evidence	x	young adult	"The quarrel had begun with the proposed marriage of Anna, a step-daughter of Guilherme, and a member of his household, to Luciano, a son of the former chief Simbwyikoka and an inhabitant of the latter's village. Guilherme had no effective religious affiliation but Anna had been baptized as a Catholic, her godmother being Maria, the wife of Paulo. Luciano on the other hand was the elder of the Protestant catechetical school in Simbwyikoka village. Paulo therefore intervened to stop the marriage in accordance with the rule made by the Catholic missions against marriage with non-Catholics.
 On the 25th Lusase, the chief of Gumba, happened to visit [p. 131] Epalanga. Told what had happened, he said that he would keep out of it, and that he had advised Guilherme to live elsewhere. In the afternoon of the same day, as heavy rain was falling, a number of people ran up and bounded on to my veranda. These included Anna, another girl (I think a sister of hers) both rather frightened, Simbwyikoka, Luciano, Paulo and some others. Anna said that Simbwyikoka was a sorcerer (3) and would kill her, and sooner than be killed by sorcery she would jump in the river. Simbwyikoka and Luciano had come to Epalanga to try and recover the 250 escudos which had been paid over in bridewealth. The catechist tried to intervene saying 'The catechist is the chief4 of everybody in the village', but nobody paid any attention to him. Eventually, as the girl continued to threaten to jump in the river, I contributed 200 escudos, and so those involved left satisfied."	personal conflict,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"The quarrel had begun with the proposed marriage of Anna, a step-daughter of Guilherme, and a member of his household, to Luciano, a son of the former chief Simbwyikoka and an inhabitant of the latter's village. Guilherme had no effective religious affiliation but Anna had been baptized as a Catholic, her godmother being Maria, the wife of Paulo. Luciano on the other hand was the elder of the Protestant catechetical school in Simbwyikoka village. Paulo therefore intervened to stop the marriage in accordance with the rule made by the Catholic missions against marriage with non-Catholics.
 On the 25th Lusase, the chief of Gumba, happened to visit [p. 131] Epalanga. Told what had happened, he said that he would keep out of it, and that he had advised Guilherme to live elsewhere. In the afternoon of the same day, as heavy rain was falling, a number of people ran up and bounded on to my veranda. These included Anna, another girl (I think a sister of hers) both rather frightened, Simbwyikoka, Luciano, Paulo and some others. Anna said that Simbwyikoka was a sorcerer (3) and would kill her, and sooner than be killed by sorcery she would jump in the river. Simbwyikoka and Luciano had come to Epalanga to try and recover the 250 escudos which had been paid over in bridewealth. The catechist tried to intervene saying 'The catechist is the chief4 of everybody in the village', but nobody paid any attention to him. Eventually, as the girl continued to threaten to jump in the river, I contributed 200 escudos, and so those involved left satisfied."	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	jumping	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	ex affines	male	na	No evidence	female	ethnographer,ex affines	Evidence against		no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x	witchcraft	no	These included Anna, another girl (I think a sister of hers) both rather frightened, Simbwyikoka, Luciano, Paulo and some others. Anna said that Simbwyikoka was a sorcerer (3) and would kill her, and sooner than be 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	 I contributed 200 escudos, and so those involved left satisfied.	x	Evidence for	public	no	Evidence against	unknown	firsthand
54	syme	Case	Ovimbundu	About noon the next day I found that Paulo and the catechist had returned to Epalanga and heard from them what had happened. On the way Guilherme had declared that his violent temper was to blame in having so many people arrested, apologized, and promised to go to another village. He pulled out a knife and threatened to commit suicide if this proposal was not accepted. This appeal was directed mainly to the catechist, and was reinforced by Guilherme's wife, who also threatened suicide and appealed to the catechist's feelings by pointing out that she had had two of her children baptized. This was accepted, and accordingly all turned back to the village except for Guilherme, Bartolomeu, his son Eugenio, and Wasuka's son Kuseka. Eugenio and Kuseka had been arrested for not paying taxes, a matter of more interest to the chefe than the village brawl for which the others had been arrested. Eugenio and Kuseka were considered by the chefe not to be yet old enough for payment of tax, and Guilherme produced some [p. 133] story to explain the non-appearance of the others which satisfied the chefe.	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	About noon the next day I found that Paulo and the catechist had returned to Epalanga and heard from them what had happened. On the way Guilherme had declared that his violent temper was to blame in having so many people arrested, apologized, and promised to go to another village. He pulled out a knife and threatened to commit suicide if this proposal was not accepted. This appeal was directed mainly to the catechist, and was reinforced by Guilherme's wife, who also threatened suicide and appealed to the catechist's feelings by pointing out that she had had two of her children baptized. This was accepted, and accordingly all turned back to the village except for Guilherme, Bartolomeu, his son Eugenio, and Wasuka's son Kuseka	personal conflict,accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	About noon the next day I found that Paulo and the catechist had returned to Epalanga and heard from them what had happened. On the way Guilherme had declared that his violent temper was to blame in having so many people arrested, apologized, and promised to go to another village. He pulled out a knife and threatened to commit suicide if this proposal was not accepted. This appeal was directed mainly to the catechist, and was reinforced by Guilherme's wife, who also threatened suicide and appealed to the catechist's feelings by pointing out that she had had two of her children baptized. This was accepted, and accordingly all turned back to the village except for Guilherme, Bartolomeu, his son Eugenio, and Wasuka's son Kuseka	na	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	bleed_to_death	About noon the next day I found that Paulo and the catechist had returned to Epalanga and heard from them what had happened. On the way Guilherme had declared that his violent temper was to blame in having so many people arrested, apologized, and promised to go to another village. He pulled out a knife and threatened to commit suicide if this proposal was not accepted. This appeal was directed mainly to the catechist, and was reinforced by Guilherme's wife, who also threatened suicide and appealed to the catechist's feelings by pointing out that she had had two of her children baptized. This was accepted, and accordingly all turned back to the village except for Guilherme, Bartolomeu, his son Eugenio, and Wasuka's son Kuseka.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	kin,ex affines, catechist	na	other	Evidence for	both	catechist	Evidence against		other	threat	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	6	x	About noon the next day I found that Paulo and the catechist had returned to Epalanga and heard from them what had happened. On the way Guilherme had declared that his violent temper was to blame in having so many people arrested, apologized, and promised to go to another village. He pulled out a knife and threatened to commit suicide if this proposal was not accepted. This appeal was directed mainly to the catechist, and was reinforced by Guilherme's wife, who also threatened suicide and appealed to the catechist's feelings by pointing out that she had had two of her children baptized. This was accepted, and accordingly all turned back to the village except for Guilherme, Bartolomeu, his son Eugenio, and Wasuka's son Kuseka.	x	unknown	About noon the next day I found that Paulo and the catechist had returned to Epalanga and heard from them what had happened. On the way Guilherme had declared that his violent temper was to blame in having so many people arrested, apologized, and promised to go to another village. He pulled out a knife and threatened to commit suicide if this proposal was not accepted. 	x	x	x	not stated	2	x	The catechist was somewhat criticized for not having pushed on with the case, and thereby perhaps getting Guilherme landed in jail. Guilherme did move out of the village in February and settled near the outskirts of the Protestant village of Kalungwengwe. Kapapelo also set about moving out of Epalanga.	x	Evidence for	public	no	Evidence for	low,unknown	firsthand
55	syme	Case	Ovimbundu	Much of the actual case consisted of accusations and counter-accusations between Sapapula and Kapapelo with other people intervening. There is a kind of attempt to establish a balance of wrongs, Kusumula claiming that Sapapula was always picking on him when there was a call for labour from the post, Kapapelo accusing Sapapula of inciting Jaime to kill him and Sapapula's sister's son Saviel of planning to seduce his wife. Sapapula had accused Kusumula and Kapapelo of trying to break the village. Lusase intervened rather against Kusumula and Kapapelo, who was his 'brother'. As previously, the demands of the post for labour are regarded as being used by their local executants in a discriminating way. On the evening of the same day, as I was calling round the village, I found Kapapelo at the door of Sapapula's kitchen. Apparently he had arrived drunk and had threatened to kill himself. Sapapula was greatly enraged at this, as were his women folk, Nahoka, his wife, Wumba, his daughter, and Nayangu, his 'sister', who vigorously abused Kapapelo. They warned Sapapula not to accept food from Kapapelo, lest the latter use it as a means of sorcery. Kapapelo complained that Nahoka had called him a slave thus expanding the hint contained in her previous enigmatic remark that Kapapelo was not a man of the country. [p. 142] Kapapelo had, no doubt, as was said, under the influence of drink, decided to carry on his conflict with Sapapula after the gathering at Justino's and had arrived at Sapapula's threatening to commit suicide. The threat of suicide was here used as Guilherme had used it to put an opponent in a difficult position, but it infuriated Sapapula, who decided that he must try and get another hearing. He therefore turned again to Justino, although the latter had previously decided against him; thus implying that even a possibly unfavourable judge is acceptable, rather than let a squabble continue indefinitely. [p. 145] To sum up, Kapapelo had originally been aligned with his kinsman Guilherme against Sapapula, who had then shown hostility to Kapapelo, and especially to his wife's brother Kusumula. The latter had counter-attacked by accusing Sapapula before Justino, and there the matter might have rested if Kapapelo had not tried to attack Sapapula again, by making the threat to commit suicide at his kitchen door. This led to the moot at which the charge of attempted adultery was made, and at which Sapapula intended to, and succeeded in, taming Kapapelo.	No evidence	x	adult	 Much of the actual case consisted of accusations and counter-accusations between Sapapula and Kapapelo with other people intervening. There is a kind of attempt to establish a balance of wrongs, Kusumula claiming that Sapapula was always picking on him when there was a call for labour from the post, Kapapelo accusing Sapapula of inciting Jaime to kill him and Sapapula's sister's son Saviel of planning to seduce his wife. Sapapula had accused Kusumula and Kapapelo of trying to break the village. Lusase intervened rather against Kusumula and Kapapelo, who was his 'brother'. As previously, the demands of the post for labour are regarded as being used by their local executants in a discriminating way. On the evening of the same day, as I was calling round the village, I found Kapapelo at the door of Sapapula's kitchen. Apparently he had arrived drunk and had threatened to kill himself. Sapapula was greatly enraged at this, as were his women folk, Nahoka, his wife, Wumba, his daughter, and Nayangu, his 'sister', who vigorously abused Kapapelo		No evidence	na	Evidence for	 Much of the actual case consisted of accusations and counter-accusations between Sapapula and Kapapelo with other people intervening. There is a kind of attempt to establish a balance of wrongs, Kusumula claiming that Sapapula was always picking on him when there was a call for labour from the post, Kapapelo accusing Sapapula of inciting Jaime to kill him and Sapapula's sister's son Saviel of planning to seduce his wife. Sapapula had accused Kusumula and Kapapelo of trying to break the village. Lusase intervened rather against Kusumula and Kapapelo, who was his 'brother'. As previously, the demands of the post for labour are regarded as being used by their local executants in a discriminating way. On the evening of the same day, as I was calling round the village, I found Kapapelo at the door of Sapapula's kitchen. Apparently he had arrived drunk and had threatened to kill himself. Sapapula was greatly enraged at this, as were his women folk, Nahoka, his wife, Wumba, his daughter, and Nayangu, his 'sister', who vigorously abused Kapapelo	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	The threat of suicide was here used as Guilherme had used it to put an opponent in a difficult position, but it infuriated Sapapula, who decided that he must try and get another hearing. He therefore turned again to Justino, although the latter had previously decided against him; thus implying that even a possibly unfavourable judge is acceptable, rather than let a squabble continue indefinitely. [p. 145] To sum up, Kapapelo had originally been aligned with his kinsman Guilherme against Sapapula, who had then shown hostility to Kapapelo, and especially to his wife's brother Kusumula. The latter had counter-attacked by accusing Sapapula before Justino, and there the matter might have rested if Kapapelo had not tried to attack Sapapula again, by making the threat to commit suicide at his kitchen door. This led to the moot at which the charge of attempted adultery was made, and at which Sapapula intended to, and succeeded in, taming Kapapelo.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	adult	social partner	male	na	No evidence	male	social partner	Evidence against		no evidence	threat	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	drunk at time	4	x	x	drunk at time	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	The threat of suicide was here used as Guilherme had used it to put an opponent in a difficult position, but it infuriated Sapapula, who decided that he must try and get another hearing. He therefore turned again to Justino, although the latter had previously decided against him; thus implying that even a possibly unfavourable judge is acceptable, rather than let a squabble continue indefinitely. [p. 145] To sum up, Kapapelo had originally been aligned with his kinsman Guilherme against Sapapula, who had then shown hostility to Kapapelo, and especially to his wife's brother Kusumula. The latter had counter-attacked by accusing Sapapula before Justino, and there the matter might have rested if Kapapelo had not tried to attack Sapapula again, by making the threat to commit suicide at his kitchen door. This led to the moot at which the charge of attempted adultery was made, and at which Sapapula intended to, and succeeded in, taming Kapapelo.	x	No evidence		unknown	No evidence	average,unknown	firsthand
56	syme	Case	Ovimbundu	Similarly, in 1920 soba Mabongo of Huambo, who had long been an ally of the Portuguese (refusing to join in the 1902 war), and who was well respected by the local merchants, was driven to commit suicide because he was unable to send the number of contract workers which the chefe had ordered, and he could not face the popular scorn of the villagers who ridiculed him for his collaboration.116 In 1926, six years after his suicide, the local people remembered him as a man who had sold out to the Portuguese.117	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	Similarly, in 1920 soba Mabongo of Huambo, who had long been an ally of the Portuguese (refusing to join in the 1902 war), and who was well respected by the local merchants, was driven to commit suicide because he was unable to send the number of contract workers which the chefe had ordered, and he could not face the popular scorn of the villagers who ridiculed him for his collaboration.116 In 1926, six years after his suicide, the local people remembered him as a man who had sold out to the Portuguese.117	group conflict,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Similarly, in 1920 soba Mabongo of Huambo, who had long been an ally of the Portuguese (refusing to join in the 1902 war), and who was well respected by the local merchants, was driven to commit suicide because he was unable to send the number of contract workers which the chefe had ordered, and he could not face the popular scorn of the villagers who ridiculed him for his collaboration.116 In 1926, six years after his suicide, the local people remembered him as a man who had sold out to the Portuguese.117	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	 and he could not face the popular scorn of the villagers who ridiculed him for his collaboration.116 	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	ingroup	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	In 1926, six years after his suicide, the local people remembered him as a man who had sold out to the Portuguese.117	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	low	unknown
57	syme	Case	Ovimbundu	One prince of Mbailundu, Kalandula, committed suicide after an unsuccessful struggle against his noble subordinates was also very friendly to the Portuguese.84	No evidence	x	adult	One prince of Mbailundu, Kalandula, committed suicide after an unsuccessful struggle against his noble subordinates was also very friendly to the Portuguese.84	group conflict,loss social position	No evidence	na	Evidence for	One prince of Mbailundu, Kalandula, committed suicide after an unsuccessful struggle against his noble subordinates was also very friendly to the Portuguese.84	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	subordinates	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	high,unknown	unknown
58	zgarfield	Cultural model	Shluh	The ar. /Arabic/M rd'-ch expresses the menacing despair into which iniquity plunges a person, driving him to a serious act: vengeance, malediction, suicide.	No evidence	x	adult	menacing despair into which iniquity plunges a person, driving him to a serious act: vengeance, malediction, suicide.		No evidence	na	No evidence	x	na	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	popular	No evidence		No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na		x		x	x		na	despair	menacing despair into which iniquity plunges a person, driving him to a serious act: vengeance, malediction, suicide.	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	no	Evidence for		firsthand
58	syme	Cultural model	Shluh	The ar. /Arabic/M rd'-ch expresses the menacing despair into which iniquity plunges a person, driving him to a serious act: vengeance, malediction, suicide.	No evidence	x	na	 the menacing despair into which iniquity plunges a person, driving him to a serious act: vengeance, malediction, suicide.	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	both	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	assoc. witchcraft,vengeance	na	the menacing despair 	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	na	no	No evidence	na	na
59	zgarfield	Case	Shluh	"For example, during the winter of 1953, all the women of Usikis incurred the anger of a saint by collecting herbs in the reserved meadows of the Tasila. They were seized by ""demoniac"" manifestations that in one or two cases went [p. 374] as far as suicide."	No evidence	x	adult	"They were seized by ""demoniac"" manifestations that in one or two cases went [p. 374] as far as suicide."		No evidence	na	Evidence for	the women of Usikis incurred the anger of a saint by collecting herbs in the reserved meadows of the Tasila. 	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence for		firsthand
59	syme	Case	Shluh	"For example, during the winter of 1953, all the women of Usikis incurred the anger of a saint by collecting herbs in the reserved meadows of the Tasila. They were seized by ""demoniac"" manifestations that in one or two cases went [p. 374] as far as suicide."	No evidence	x	unknown	"For example, during the winter of 1953, all the women of Usikis incurred the anger of a saint by collecting herbs in the reserved meadows of the Tasila. They were seized by ""demoniac"" manifestations that in one or two cases went [p. 374] as far as suicide."	spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	unknown	x	2	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	no	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	na	
60	zgarfield	Cultural model	Shluh	"This is first of all an interjection,wqwq . It rejects tendentious allegations, draws attention to bad faith, and appeals against the powerful. In graver cases of oppression, characterized by a continuous state, the weak one has at his disposal a crescendo of means: to carry a candle end,lqandil , to the court of the judge, to wander through the villages, the head smeared with the soot coming from the breaking of a pot or covered with a mat; to proclaim, to make public,berrh' , in the markets that one is the victim of so and so. Beyond that there is emigration, a frequent [p. 373] form of protest against an oppressor judged for the moment to be stronger and against whom one insists on one's rights. It is in this way that the notarial practice knows ""safeguard"" acts,istih'fz' , most often confused with those ofistir [unknown]' . Whence, moreover, the frequent allegation of absence, interruptive of prescription, in instances of a more complex and more mature turn to which the revendication of land gives rise. Evidently, the Mussulman theory of theghayba , ""imprescriptibility based on absence,"" has provided there only a convenient cadre for an old, local notion, both economic and ritual: the absent one is also the suppliant. His flight obscurely ""obligates"" the one provoking it. These manifestations do not go, as in other societies, so far as the man's suicide. But it is striking that the Chleuh /Shluh/ woman rather frequently has recourse to this genre of protestation. She hangs herself or throws herself into a cistern. And, in fact, in spite of the juridical capacity which not only the law but the mores recognize for her, and which her psychological propensity makes her exercise fully, her life in certain respects is more amenable to an extrajuridical plane than that of the man. Perhaps because of lesser communal implication: economy of the gift during the long betrothal, assiduous practice of magic, relationships offides in the marriage state, recognized aptitude for imprecatory procedures. It is in these perspectives that it is necessary to study the act, rich in social consequences, that the suicide of the woman constitutes, an act relatively frequent, and which manifests the rupture, voluntary or not, of the bond of the group. Most often it is a solemn protestation against the wrong suffered."	No evidence	x	adult	protest against an oppressor		No evidence	na	Evidence for	"protest against an oppressor

-in the face of accusation "	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging,jumping	protest against an oppressor (judgment)	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	political power	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na		x		x	x		na	x	And, in fact, in spite of the juridical capacity which not only the law but the mores recognize for her, and which her psychological propensity makes her exercise fully, her life in certain respects is more amenable to an extrajuridical plane than that of the man. 	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence for		firsthand
60	syme	Cultural model	Shluh	"This is first of all an interjection,wqwq . It rejects tendentious allegations, draws attention to bad faith, and appeals against the powerful. In graver cases of oppression, characterized by a continuous state, the weak one has at his disposal a crescendo of means: to carry a candle end,lqandil , to the court of the judge, to wander through the villages, the head smeared with the soot coming from the breaking of a pot or covered with a mat; to proclaim, to make public,berrh' , in the markets that one is the victim of so and so. Beyond that there is emigration, a frequent [p. 373] form of protest against an oppressor judged for the moment to be stronger and against whom one insists on one's rights. It is in this way that the notarial practice knows ""safeguard"" acts,istih'fz' , most often confused with those ofistir [unknown]' . Whence, moreover, the frequent allegation of absence, interruptive of prescription, in instances of a more complex and more mature turn to which the revendication of land gives rise. Evidently, the Mussulman theory of theghayba , ""imprescriptibility based on absence,"" has provided there only a convenient cadre for an old, local notion, both economic and ritual: the absent one is also the suppliant. His flight obscurely ""obligates"" the one provoking it. These manifestations do not go, as in other societies, so far as the man's suicide. But it is striking that the Chleuh /Shluh/ woman rather frequently has recourse to this genre of protestation. She hangs herself or throws herself into a cistern. And, in fact, in spite of the juridical capacity which not only the law but the mores recognize for her, and which her psychological propensity makes her exercise fully, her life in certain respects is more amenable to an extrajuridical plane than that of the man. Perhaps because of lesser communal implication: economy of the gift during the long betrothal, assiduous practice of magic, relationships offides in the marriage state, recognized aptitude for imprecatory procedures. It is in these perspectives that it is necessary to study the act, rich in social consequences, that the suicide of the woman constitutes, an act relatively frequent, and which manifests the rupture, voluntary or not, of the bond of the group. Most often it is a solemn protestation against the wrong suffered."	No evidence	x	na	But it is striking that the Chleuh /Shluh/ woman rather frequently has recourse to this genre of protestation. 	personal conflict	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Evidently, the Mussulman theory of theghayba , ""imprescriptibility based on absence,"" has provided there only a convenient cadre for an old, local notion, both economic and ritual: the absent one is also the suppliant. His flight obscurely ""obligates"" the one provoking it. These manifestations do not go, as in other societies, so far as the man's suicide. But it is striking that the Chleuh /Shluh/ woman rather frequently has recourse to this genre of protestation. She hangs herself or throws herself into a cistern. "	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging,jumping	ut it is striking that the Chleuh /Shluh/ woman rather frequently has recourse to this genre of protestation. 	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	more often women	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	unknown	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	It is in these perspectives that it is necessary to study the act, rich in social consequences, that the suicide of the woman constitutes, an act relatively frequent, and which manifests the rupture, voluntary or not, of the bond of the group. Most often it is a solemn protestation against the wrong suffered.	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
61	zgarfield	Cultural model	Shluh	But it [suicide] may also result from a disorder inflicted by mysterious powers.	No evidence	x	adult	a disorder inflicted by mysterious powers.	spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown		Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	other,unknown	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	But it [suicide] may also result from a disorder inflicted by mysterious powers.	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	a disorder inflicted by mysterious powers.	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		unknown
61	syme	Cultural model	Shluh	But it [suicide] may also result from a disorder inflicted by mysterious powers.	No evidence	x	unknown	But it [suicide] may also result from a disorder inflicted by mysterious powers.	spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	na	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	unknown	x	x	x	x	x	na	x	x	x	x	na	x	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
63	zgarfield	Case	Tiv	"Suicide and Swende . During the ""war"" of May, 1950, a young Udam woman who had been married into Tivland for less than a week tried to commit suicide when her father's people and her husband's people were in armed conflict. The Tiv considered this most irrational, and all said that no Tiv, woman or man, would hold life so cheaply. Uta even said about it, bitingly, ""She should have waited--maybe we wouldn't have killed her."" [LB 23 July 1950 Iyon] At Ayatyavga's today, they began talking again about the attempted suicide of that Udam girl during the May war. Ayatyavga's senior wife shook her head, ""Cut your own throat! I couldn't do it! She was so frightened she tried to cut her own throat--she's crazy (a fa kwagh ga). We Tiv don't kill people--we wouldn't have hurt her."" She went on to say that she would rather be"	Evidence for	x	young adult	her father's people and her husband's people were in armed conflict.	group conflict	No evidence	na	Evidence for	her father's people and her husband's people were in armed conflict.	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	bleed_to_death	her father's people and her husband's people were in armed conflict	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	kin	male	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	war	attempt	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		unknown	She was so frightened she tried to cut her own throat--she's crazy (a fa kwagh ga)	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	She should have waited--maybe we wouldn't have killed her	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence for		secondhand
63	syme	Case	Tiv	"Suicide and Swende . During the ""war"" of May, 1950, a young Udam woman who had been married into Tivland for less than a week tried to commit suicide when her father's people and her husband's people were in armed conflict. The Tiv considered this most irrational, and all said that no Tiv, woman or man, would hold life so cheaply. Uta even said about it, bitingly, ""She should have waited--maybe we wouldn't have killed her."" [LB 23 July 1950 Iyon] At Ayatyavga's today, they began talking again about the attempted suicide of that Udam girl during the May war. Ayatyavga's senior wife shook her head, ""Cut your own throat! I couldn't do it! She was so frightened she tried to cut her own throat--she's crazy (a fa kwagh ga). We Tiv don't kill people--we wouldn't have hurt her."" She went on to say that she would rather be"	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	"Suicide and Swende . During the ""war"" of May, 1950, a young Udam woman who had been married into Tivland for less than a week tried to commit suicide when her father's people and her husband's people were in armed conflict. "	group conflict,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Suicide and Swende . During the ""war"" of May, 1950, a young Udam woman who had been married into Tivland for less than a week tried to commit suicide when her father's people and her husband's people were in armed conflict. The Tiv considered this most irrational, and all said that no Tiv, woman or man, would hold life so cheaply. Uta even said about it, bitingly, ""She should have waited--maybe we wouldn't have killed her."" [LB 23 July 1950 Iyon] At Ayatyavga's today, they began talking again about the attempted suicide of that Udam girl during the May war. Ayatyavga's senior wife shook her head, ""Cut your own throat! I couldn't do it! She was so frightened she tried to cut her own throat--she's crazy (a fa kwagh ga). We Tiv don't kill people--we wouldn't have hurt her."" She went on to say that she would rather be"	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	outgroup	na	na	No evidence	female	x	No evidence		war	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	unknown	"She was so frightened she tried to cut her own throat--she's crazy (a fa kwagh ga). We Tiv don't kill people--we wouldn't have hurt her."""	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	" ""She should have waited--maybe we wouldn't have killed her."" "	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence for	low,unknown	firsthand
64	zgarfield	Case	Tiv	A mad Uge woman was brought to MbaDuku for treatment. She escaped one day when most of the people of the compound had gone to market, wounded a woman and killed herself by stabbing. A pencilled note in English on the back of it says that the Uge relatives took away the body of the suicide, and that all witnesses were warned that they might be asked to give evidence at a formal trial.	Evidence for	x	adult	A mad Uge woman was brought to MbaDuku for treatment. She escaped one day when most of the people of the compound had gone to market, wounded a woman and killed herself by stabbing.		No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	unknown	No evidence	stabbing	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for		no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	A mad Uge woman was brought to MbaDuku for treatment. She escaped one day when most of the people of the compound had gone to market, wounded a woman and killed herself by stabbing.		unknown	x	x	x	relatives took away the body of the suicide, and that all witnesses were warned that they might be asked to give evidence at a formal trial.	not stated	1	A mad Uge woman was brought to MbaDuku for treatment. She escaped one day when most of the people of the compound had gone to market, wounded a woman and killed herself by stabbing.	x	x	No evidence	public	no	Evidence for		first person
64	syme	Case	Tiv	A mad Uge woman was brought to MbaDuku for treatment. She escaped one day when most of the people of the compound had gone to market, wounded a woman and killed herself by stabbing. A pencilled note in English on the back of it says that the Uge relatives took away the body of the suicide, and that all witnesses were warned that they might be asked to give evidence at a formal trial.	No evidence	x	adult	A mad Uge woman was brought to MbaDuku for treatment. She escaped one day when most of the people of the compound had gone to market, wounded a woman and killed herself by stabbing. A pencilled note in English on the back of it says that the Uge relatives took away the body of the suicide, and that all witnesses were warned that they might be asked to give evidence at a formal trial.	accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	unknown	No evidence	bleed_to_death	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		other	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	A wounded a woman and killed herself by stabbing.	4	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	A mad Uge woman was brought to MbaDuku for treatment. She escaped one day when most of the people of the compound had gone to market, wounded a woman and killed herself by stabbing. 	 A pencilled note in English on the back of it says that the Uge relatives took away the body of the suicide, and that all witnesses were warned that they might be asked to give evidence at a formal trial.	x	Evidence for	public	no	Evidence for	low,unknown	documented_account
65	zgarfield	Case	Wolof	More striking examples for a Western reader, perhaps, than intermediaries who relay requests, announce decisions, or conduct political negotiations are cases where the intermediary's role is to express strong emotion. One afternoon, a group of women (some five nobles and two griots) were gathered near a well on the edge of town when another woman strode over to the well and threw herself down it. All the women were shocked at the apparent suicide attempt, but the noble women were shocked in silence. Only the griot women screamed, on behalf of all.26	No evidence	x	adult	x		No evidence	na	No evidence	x	fearfully	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	no	No evidence		secondhand
65	syme	Case	Wolof	More striking examples for a Western reader, perhaps, than intermediaries who relay requests, announce decisions, or conduct political negotiations are cases where the intermediary's role is to express strong emotion. One afternoon, a group of women (some five nobles and two griots) were gathered near a well on the edge of town when another woman strode over to the well and threw herself down it. All the women were shocked at the apparent suicide attempt, but the noble women were shocked in silence. Only the griot women screamed, on behalf of all.26	No evidence	x	adult	x	na	No evidence	na	Evidence for	More striking examples for a Western reader, perhaps, than intermediaries who relay requests, announce decisions, or conduct political negotiations are cases where the intermediary's role is to express strong emotion.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		na	na	No evidence	jumping	More striking examples for a Western reader, perhaps, than intermediaries who relay requests, announce decisions, or conduct political negotiations are cases where the intermediary's role is to express strong emotion. 	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	attempt,unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	unknown	More striking examples for a Western reader, perhaps, than intermediaries who relay requests, announce decisions, or conduct political negotiations are cases where the intermediary's role is to express strong emotion. One afternoon, a group of women (some five nobles and two griots) were gathered near a well on the edge of town when another woman strode over to the well and threw herself down it. All the women were shocked at the apparent suicide attempt, but the noble women were shocked in silence. Only the griot women screamed, on behalf of all.26	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	All the women were shocked at the apparent suicide attempt, but the noble women were shocked in silence. Only the griot women screamed, on behalf of all.26	x	No evidence	public	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
66	syme	Case	Alorese	"It is also interesting that one case of possible suicide, a person who was obviously insane, revolved around this same theme of spirit possession and premature burial. I quote a detailed account for the light it throws on the subject. The narration referred to an event that occurred about fifteen years ago and began with Fanseni's accidentally offending an evil spirit who lived near his maize field. Some two months later, when the maize was being carried back to his house for storage, signs of abnormality were first noted. Fanseni complained of a violent headache and refused to eat, [p. 155] although he gave his kinsmen a pig in payment for their help and as a final harvest feast. The next day he stayed in his house, and when his young nephews returned, among whom was Rilpada, he spoke to them in a garble of Malay and Abui, saying, ""Respects, gentlemen; my children, come up. Are you happy or not? If you are happy, you may smoke up this whole tube of tobacco."" That night several male kin stayed to watch over him. In the course of the night Rilpada noticed that Fanseni in his sleep had taken off his loincloth and defecated. As Rilpada drew his father's attention to the act Fanseni awoke and shouted belligerently, ""Who defecated? Ung! Who defecated? I deny these feces. Let us fight."" Those present were badly frightened and shouted to the near-by villagers, ""Don't be afraid. An evil spirit has risen in Fanseni, but do not be afraid."" At this point two men came to lend the watchers assistance. As they approached they tried to frighten Fanseni by shooting arrows at the outer house wall but succeeded only in making him deny noisily that he was afraid. When the two men finally appeared in the doorway, they aimed an arrow directly at him. Fanseni at this point picked up a piece of firewood, held it against his crotch, then broke it in two, saying, ""This is my penis. Give it to your children to eat. Perhaps they are crying of hunger."" He then scattered the coals from the hearth about the room. Everyone was now assured that only an evil spirit was capable of such behavior, so Fanseni was securely lashed and left in the house. The others went below to spend the rest of the night. Fanseni slept but was aroused by Rilpada, who threw a stone at the house wall to tease him. Fanseni shouted that he knew Rilpada was guilty of the act--a fact, incidentally, that Rilpada brazenly denied. At this point Fanseni managed to burn through his lashings, so that he had to be bound more securely than ever. In the morning as the others were roasting cassava, Fanseni pulled himself to the doorway and watched them. When asked if he were hungry he nodded his head in the affirmative. There was some debate about untying him to let him eat. The opposition said there was no use feeding an evil spirit; nevertheless, he was untied and offered a large piece of cassava, which he stuffed into his mouth all at once. This confirmed the suspicion that he was still possessed. Then Fanseni said, ""My father, Padalani, who is down below, calls. Let us go to him."" Followed by the others, Fanseni slid down the trail on his buttocks, grasping a stick with which he swept the trail as he went. On the way, he interpreted the call of a bird as the voice of a guru, resident in Atimelang at the time. Also, he kept insisting that his [p. 156] dead father was calling him. He came to a big stone and pretended to catch a rat under it. Then he broke off a piece of stick, held it near his crotch, and offered it to one of his guardians for his hungry children. The man who was the butt of this malice struck Fanseni's fingers only to have him say, ""Eh, that's fine."" Also, on the way down the slope Fanseni ate certain foods raw that are ordinarily cooked. A little later, without showing any signs of discomfort, he ate a raw tuber known to be extremely astringent. Finally he reached his father's grave and there ordered the others to dig his own grave just about two yards away. This they did. He then gave them further orders, such as to fetch his shroud and eating plate and to give his bow to a cousin. All these errands he assigned one at a time in order to have people run back and forth as much as possible. Finally he adjusted his shroud and got into the grave. He got out again, however, complaining that a stone in it made him uncomfortable and asking to have it removed. He got in once more and then asked to have his food plate placed next to his body under the shroud. One of the guardians asked, ""Are you finished?"" Fanseni answered, ""I am through, so cover me up."" People began shoving in the earth and Fanseni spoke for the last time, saying, ""Now I am glad. Just now it was bad. That must not be. Now it is good."" When the earth completely covered his body, Fanseni moved. In a panic the buriers fetched two large stones and hastily dropped them on him before they finished filling in the grave. The whole event naturally frightened the villagers badly. For several nights they stopped up every nook and cranny of their houses to prevent Fanseni's spirit from entering and during the day frequently inspected his grave to make sure it was still undisturbed. In the relative mildness of aggression and in the openly suicidal quality this case differs from three other cases of recognized insanity. It resembles the other cases in its obscenity. All four of these instances were thought to be cases of spirit possession. If the diagnosis made so far about the lack of avenues for internalizing [p. 157] aggression is correct, and if, on the other hand, society offers means, such as wealth, to externalize aggression, self-inflicted death is not likely to be a highly developed personality trend. This alone might explain the absence of institutionalized suicide. In addition, when death may result from extranormal personality states, such as occur in delirium, coma, and insanity, it becomes clear why spirit possession is an evil and why shamanistic trances and intoxication have not been selected for social emphasis."	Evidence for	The whole event naturally frightened the villagers badly. For several nights they stopped up every nook and cranny of their houses to prevent Fanseni's spirit from entering and during the day frequently inspected his grave to make sure it was still undisturbed.	adult	"It is also interesting that one case of possible suicide, a person who was obviously insane, revolved around this same theme of spirit possession and premature burial. I quote a detailed account for the light it throws on the subject. The narration referred to an event that occurred about fifteen years ago and began with Fanseni's accidentally offending an evil spirit who lived near his maize field. Some two months later, when the maize was being carried back to his house for storage, signs of abnormality were first noted. Fanseni complained of a violent headache and refused to eat, [p. 155] although he gave his kinsmen a pig in payment for their help and as a final harvest feast. The next day he stayed in his house, and when his young nephews returned, among whom was Rilpada, he spoke to them in a garble of Malay and Abui, saying, ""Respects, gentlemen; my children, come up. Are you happy or not? If you are happy, you may smoke up this whole tube of tobacco."" That night several male kin stayed to watch over him. In the course of the night Rilpada noticed that Fanseni in his sleep had taken off his loincloth and defecated. As Rilpada drew his father's attention to the act Fanseni awoke and shouted belligerently, ""Who defecated? Ung! Who defecated? I deny these feces. Let us fight."" Those present were badly frightened and shouted to the near-by villagers, ""Don't be afraid. An evil spirit has risen in Fanseni, but do not be afraid."" At this point two men came to lend the watchers assistance. As they approached they tried to frighten Fanseni by shooting arrows at the outer house wall but succeeded only in making him deny noisily that he was afraid. When the two men finally appeared in the doorway, they aimed an arrow directly at him. Fanseni at this point picked up a piece of firewood, held it against his crotch, then broke it in two, saying, ""This is my penis. Give it to your children to eat. Perhaps they are crying of hunger."" He then scattered the coals from the hearth about the room. Everyone was now assured that only an evil spirit was capable of such behavior, so Fanseni was securely lashed and left in the house. The others went below to spend the rest of the night. Fanseni slept but was aroused by Rilpada, who threw a stone at the house wall to tease him. Fanseni shouted that he knew Rilpada was guilty of the act--a fact, incidentally, that Rilpada brazenly denied. At this point Fanseni managed to burn through his lashings, so that he had to be bound more securely than ever. In the morning as the others were roasting cassava, Fanseni pulled himself to the doorway and watched them. When asked if he were hungry he nodded his head in the affirmative. There was some debate about untying him to let him eat. The opposition said there was no use feeding an evil spirit; nevertheless, he was untied and offered a large piece of cassava, which he stuffed into his mouth all at once. This confirmed the suspicion that he was still possessed. Then Fanseni said, ""My father, Padalani, who is down below, calls. Let us go to him."" Followed by the others, Fanseni slid down the trail on his buttocks, grasping a stick with which he swept the trail as he went. On the way, he interpreted the call of a bird as the voice of a guru, resident in Atimelang at the time. Also, he kept insisting that his [p. 156] dead father was calling him. He came to a big stone and pretended to catch a rat under it. Then he broke off a piece of stick, held it near his crotch, and offered it to one of his guardians for his hungry children. The man who was the butt of this malice struck Fanseni's fingers only to have him say, ""Eh, that's fine."" Also, on the way down the slope Fanseni ate certain foods raw that are ordinarily cooked. A little later, without showing any signs of discomfort, he ate a raw tuber known to be extremely astringent. Finally he reached his father's grave and there ordered the others to dig his own grave just about two yards away. This they did. He then gave them further orders, such as to fetch his shroud and eating plate and to give his bow to a cousin. All these errands he assigned one at a time in order to have people run back and forth as much as possible. Finally he adjusted his shroud and got into the grave. He got out again, however, complaining that a stone in it made him uncomfortable and asking to have it removed. He got in once more and then asked to have his food plate placed next to his body under the shroud. One of the guardians asked, ""Are you finished?"" Fanseni answered, ""I am through, so cover me up."""	personal conflict,enslavement_capture,rejection,spirit attack	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"It is also interesting that one case of possible suicide, a person who was obviously insane, revolved around this same theme of spirit possession and premature burial. I quote a detailed account for the light it throws on the subject. The narration referred to an event that occurred about fifteen years ago and began with Fanseni's accidentally offending an evil spirit who lived near his maize field. Some two months later, when the maize was being carried back to his house for storage, signs of abnormality were first noted. Fanseni complained of a violent headache and refused to eat, [p. 155] although he gave his kinsmen a pig in payment for their help and as a final harvest feast. The next day he stayed in his house, and when his young nephews returned, among whom was Rilpada, he spoke to them in a garble of Malay and Abui, saying, ""Respects, gentlemen; my children, come up. Are you happy or not? If you are happy, you may smoke up this whole tube of tobacco."" That night several male kin stayed to watch over him. In the course of the night Rilpada noticed that Fanseni in his sleep had taken off his loincloth and defecated. As Rilpada drew his father's attention to the act Fanseni awoke and shouted belligerently, ""Who defecated? Ung! Who defecated? I deny these feces. Let us fight."" Those present were badly frightened and shouted to the near-by villagers, ""Don't be afraid. An evil spirit has risen in Fanseni, but do not be afraid."" At this point two men came to lend the watchers assistance. As they approached they tried to frighten Fanseni by shooting arrows at the outer house wall but succeeded only in making him deny noisily that he was afraid. When the two men finally appeared in the doorway, they aimed an arrow directly at him. Fanseni at this point picked up a piece of firewood, held it against his crotch, then broke it in two, saying, ""This is my penis. Give it to your children to eat. Perhaps they are crying of hunger."" He then scattered the coals from the hearth about the room. Everyone was now assured that only an evil spirit was capable of such behavior, so Fanseni was securely lashed and left in the house. The others went below to spend the rest of the night. Fanseni slept but was aroused by Rilpada, who threw a stone at the house wall to tease him. Fanseni shouted that he knew Rilpada was guilty of the act--a fact, incidentally, that Rilpada brazenly denied. At this point Fanseni managed to burn through his lashings, so that he had to be bound more securely than ever. In the morning as the others were roasting cassava, Fanseni pulled himself to the doorway and watched them. When asked if he were hungry he nodded his head in the affirmative. There was some debate about untying him to let him eat. The opposition said there was no use feeding an evil spirit; nevertheless, he was untied and offered a large piece of cassava, which he stuffed into his mouth all at once. This confirmed the suspicion that he was still possessed. Then Fanseni said, ""My father, Padalani, who is down below, calls. Let us go to him."" Followed by the others, Fanseni slid down the trail on his buttocks, grasping a stick with which he swept the trail as he went. On the way, he interpreted the call of a bird as the voice of a guru, resident in Atimelang at the time. Also, he kept insisting that his [p. 156] dead father was calling him. He came to a big stone and pretended to catch a rat under it. Then he broke off a piece of stick, held it near his crotch, and offered it to one of his guardians for his hungry children. The man who was the butt of this malice struck Fanseni's fingers only to have him say, ""Eh, that's fine."" Also, on the way down the slope Fanseni ate certain foods raw that are ordinarily cooked. A little later, without showing any signs of discomfort, he ate a raw tuber known to be extremely astringent. Finally he reached his father's grave and there ordered the others to dig his own grave just about two yards away. This they did. He then gave them further orders, such as to fetch his shroud and eating plate and to give his bow to a cousin. All these errands he assigned one at a time in order to have people run back and forth as much as possible. Finally he adjusted his shroud and got into the grave. He got out again, however, complaining that a stone in it made him uncomfortable and asking to have it removed. He got in once more and then asked to have his food plate placed next to his body under the shroud. One of the guardians asked, ""Are you finished?"" Fanseni answered, ""I am through, so cover me up."""	ambivalently	na	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	schizophrenia,unknown	Evidence against	bury_alive	" People began shoving in the earth and Fanseni spoke for the last time, saying, ""Now I am glad. Just now it was bad. That must not be. Now it is good."""	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	na	ingroup	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	unknown	no evidence of ailme	"That night several male kin stayed to watch over him. In the course of the night Rilpada noticed that Fanseni in his sleep had taken off his loincloth and defecated. As Rilpada drew his father's attention to the act Fanseni awoke and shouted belligerently, ""Who defecated? Ung! Who defecated? I deny these feces. Let us fight."" Those present were badly frightened and shouted to the near-by villagers, ""Don't be afraid. An evil spirit has risen in Fanseni, but do not be afraid."" At this point two men came to lend the watchers assistance

He came to a big stone and pretended to catch a rat under it. Then he broke off a piece of stick, held it near his crotch, and offered it to one of his guardians for his hungry children. The man who was the butt of this malice struck Fanseni's fingers only to have him say, ""Eh, that's fine."" Also, on the way down the slope Fanseni ate certain foods raw that are ordinarily cooked. A little later, without showing any signs of discomfort, he ate a raw tuber known to be extremely astringent. Finally he reached his father's grave and there ordered the others to dig his own grave just about two yards away. This they did. He then gave them further orders, such as to fetch his shroud and eating plate and to give his bow to a cousin. All these errands he assigned one at a time in order to have people run back and forth as much as possible. Finally he adjusted his shroud and got into the grave. He got out again, however, complaining that a stone in it made him uncomfortable and asking to have it removed. He got in once more and then asked to have his food plate placed next to his body under the shroud."	7	x	"That night several male kin stayed to watch over him. In the course of the night Rilpada noticed that Fanseni in his sleep had taken off his loincloth and defecated. As Rilpada drew his father's attention to the act Fanseni awoke and shouted belligerently, ""Who defecated? Ung! Who defecated? I deny these feces. Let us fight."" Those present were badly frightened and shouted to the near-by villagers, ""Don't be afraid. An evil spirit has risen in Fanseni, but do not be afraid."" At this point two men came to lend the watchers assistance

He came to a big stone and pretended to catch a rat under it. Then he broke off a piece of stick, held it near his crotch, and offered it to one of his guardians for his hungry children. The man who was the butt of this malice struck Fanseni's fingers only to have him say, ""Eh, that's fine."" Also, on the way down the slope Fanseni ate certain foods raw that are ordinarily cooked. A little later, without showing any signs of discomfort, he ate a raw tuber known to be extremely astringent. Finally he reached his father's grave and there ordered the others to dig his own grave just about two yards away. This they did. He then gave them further orders, such as to fetch his shroud and eating plate and to give his bow to a cousin. All these errands he assigned one at a time in order to have people run back and forth as much as possible. Finally he adjusted his shroud and got into the grave. He got out again, however, complaining that a stone in it made him uncomfortable and asking to have it removed. He got in once more and then asked to have his food plate placed next to his body under the shroud."	x	unknown	x	" People began shoving in the earth and Fanseni spoke for the last time, saying, ""Now I am glad. Just now it was bad. That must not be. Now it is good."""	x	"eople began shoving in the earth and Fanseni spoke for the last time, saying, ""Now I am glad. Just now it was bad. That must not be. Now it is good."" When the earth completely covered his body, Fanseni moved. In a panic the buriers fetched two large stones and hastily dropped them on him before they finished filling in the grave"	not stated	1	"Fanseni complained of a violent headache and refused to eat, [p. 155] although he gave his 


It is also interesting that one case of possible suicide, a person who was obviously insane, revolved around this same theme of spirit possession and premature burial. I quote a detailed account for the light it throws on the subject. The narration referred to an event that occurred about fifteen years ago and began with Fanseni's accidentally offending an evil spirit who lived near his maize field. Some two months later, when the maize was being carried back to his house for storage, signs of abnormality were first noted. Fanseni complained of a violent headache and refused to eat, [p. 155] although he gave his kinsmen a pig in payment for their help and as a final harvest feast. The next day he stayed in his house, and when his young nephews returned, among whom was Rilpada, he spoke to them in a garble of Malay and Abui, saying, ""Respects, gentlemen; my children, come up. Are you happy or not? If you are happy, you may smoke up this whole tube of tobacco."" That night several male kin stayed to watch over him. In the course of the night Rilpada noticed that Fanseni in his sleep had taken off his loincloth and defecated. As Rilpada drew his father's attention to the act Fanseni awoke and shouted belligerently, ""Who defecated? Ung! Who defecated? I deny these feces. Let us fight."" Those present were badly frightened and shouted to the near-by villagers, ""Don't be afraid. An evil spirit has risen in Fanseni, but do not be afraid."" "	The whole event naturally frightened the villagers badly. For several nights they stopped up every nook and cranny of their houses to prevent Fanseni's spirit from entering and during the day frequently inspected his grave to make sure it was still undisturbed.	Fanseni complained of a violent headache	Evidence for	public	unknown	Evidence for	low	secondhand
67	syme	Case	Bengali	Karim left home while he was in the tenth grade. That was in 1930, when a good number of Hindus still lived in the village. His father, Korban Ali, searched for him in all possible places, but without any success. After two years, Karim suddenly arrived at the village with his bride, a Hindu woman of twenty-six (Karim was only eighteen at the time). The Hindus of the village became furious, but the Muslims [p. 134] thought that Karim had done a great thing by converting a Hindu girl to Islam. Villagers believed that converting a non-Muslim to Islam is clearing the way for heaven. The following year there was an election. Despite the violent protests of the Hindus, Karim got solid support in this Muslim village and got himself elected for the first time. When Karim married again in 1935 (on the plea that his Hindu wife could not manage a Muslim household) his first wife committed suicide.	No evidence	x	adult	Despite the violent protests of the Hindus, Karim got solid support in this Muslim village and got himself elected for the first time. When Karim married again in 1935 (on the plea that his Hindu wife could not manage a Muslim household) his first wife committed suicide.		No evidence	na	Evidence for	The following year there was an election. Despite the violent protests of the Hindus, Karim got solid support in this Muslim village and got himself elected for the first time. When Karim married again in 1935 (on the plea that his Hindu wife could not manage a Muslim household) his first wife committed suicide.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	husband,others unknown	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	29	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	polygyny	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	high,unknown	unknown
68	syme	Case	Bengali	"A tragic incident occurred in Palashpur following the attempted rape of a young married Baen woman by a twenty-four-year-old Brahman bachelor. The young man was already known throughout the untouchable community for his promiscuity. His wedding was arranged and wedding date set, but one day the young woman saw him following her while she was gathering firewood from the bush. She was frightened and ran home to tell her husband, who asked her to continue collecting fuel. The Baen husband called some of his friends and quietly entered the bush just in time to find the Brahman molesting his wife. The seven Baen men jumped upon the Brahman and beat him, but high-caste men who heard the noise intervened on behalf of the Brahman. The Baen men went back to the village grudgingly and decided to file a court case. The Baen wanted several Lohar to accompany them to the police station, but the Lohar men decided against it because they and their children worked as mahinders in high-caste homes. They were fearful of creating possible tension with their manibs' families. The police from Bolpur came with a warrant to arrest the young Brahman, but he had already run away. Apparently the young man's family was ashamed of his behavior and refused to help him. This annoyed the high-caste youths, one of whom told a group of Baen men, ""You should be ashamed of yourselves. We could have settled the matter like bhadrolok, but you went to court to act against your own people and to ruin the [p. 58] guy's life."" But later a Baen man wondered aloud, ""Who's a bhadrolok and who's not? It's not written on your skin. Your behavior must show it. We have suffered for many years. Those high-caste men have insulted our women on many occasions. Now we must have justice!"" Another shouted, ""I shall have no sleep until that guy goes to jail for at least ten years."" The search went on, but the police could not trace the young man. After three days news came that he had jumped in front of a train at Guskara Station near Bolpur and after several hours had died. Upon hearing this, high-caste men in Palashpur went into a great rage against the Baen. Some shouted, ""We will burn the Muchipara"" (the portion of the village where the Baen live). The Baen were frightened by this and met with CPM members at Shyambati, about a mile from Palashpur on the Palashpur-Santiniketan road. There they announced their challenge that they would fight back. Now the village was divided into two groups. When the man's body was returned, a silence fell over the community. People were ready for a storm, but one elderly Baen woman who could not bear the sight of the dead body cried loudly and ran to the home of the dead man: ""Oh, he is our son, a son of the village! I saw him as a crawling baby, so big and so healthy. Oh god, why don't you take old people like us? Here we are and he is gone. How can his parents bear this?"" She began to beat her chest, and soon other untouchable women, in tears, followed her. At first the family of the dead man did not react, then abruptly the young man's mother started to cry and pound her chest. She cried loudly. After a few minutes the people set aside their grudge against each other and lamented the tragedy. The Baen men came to the Brahman's courtyard. One said, ""Oh god, we did not want this. We just wanted to threaten him. After all, he was not that bad."" One old Brahman man said, ""What he did, all of us did in our youth. He was just very unlucky to get caught this way."" During the cremation, a huge crowd gathered to lament his death, and the funeral feast was attended by both high caste and untouchables alike. The entire event was like a social drama, turning the village scoundrel into a hero. The incident also demonstrated the rising power and determination of the Baen to react against social injustices within the community. [p. 59] The event also revealed the inherent community cohesiveness--to be able to stand together in the face of a calamity."	No evidence	x	young adult	"A tragic incident occurred in Palashpur following the attempted rape of a young married Baen woman by a twenty-four-year-old Brahman bachelor. The young man was already known throughout the untouchable community for his promiscuity. His wedding was arranged and wedding date set, but one day the young woman saw him following her while she was gathering firewood from the bush. She was frightened and ran home to tell her husband, who asked her to continue collecting fuel. The Baen husband called some of his friends and quietly entered the bush just in time to find the Brahman molesting his wife. The seven Baen men jumped upon the Brahman and beat him, but high-caste men who heard the noise intervened on behalf of the Brahman. The Baen men went back to the village grudgingly and decided to file a court case. The Baen wanted several Lohar to accompany them to the police station, but the Lohar men decided against it because they and their children worked as mahinders in high-caste homes. They were fearful of creating possible tension with their manibs' families. The police from Bolpur came with a warrant to arrest the young Brahman, but he had already run away. Apparently the young man's family was ashamed of his behavior and refused to help him. This annoyed the high-caste youths, one of whom told a group of Baen men, ""You should be ashamed of yourselves. We could have settled the matter like bhadrolok, but you went to court to act against your own people and to ruin the [p. 58] guy's life."" But later a Baen man wondered aloud, ""Who's a bhadrolok and who's not? It's not written on your skin. Your behavior must show it. We have suffered for many years. Those high-caste men have insulted our women on many occasions. Now we must have justice!"" Another shouted, ""I shall have no sleep until that guy goes to jail for at least ten years."" The search went on, but the police could not trace the young man."	group conflict,accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"A tragic incident occurred in Palashpur following the attempted rape of a young married Baen woman by a twenty-four-year-old Brahman bachelor. The young man was already known throughout the untouchable community for his promiscuity. His wedding was arranged and wedding date set, but one day the young woman saw him following her while she was gathering firewood from the bush. She was frightened and ran home to tell her husband, who asked her to continue collecting fuel. The Baen husband called some of his friends and quietly entered the bush just in time to find the Brahman molesting his wife. The seven Baen men jumped upon the Brahman and beat him, but high-caste men who heard the noise intervened on behalf of the Brahman. The Baen men went back to the village grudgingly and decided to file a court case. The Baen wanted several Lohar to accompany them to the police station, but the Lohar men decided against it because they and their children worked as mahinders in high-caste homes. They were fearful of creating possible tension with their manibs' families. The police from Bolpur came with a warrant to arrest the young Brahman, but he had already run away. Apparently the young man's family was ashamed of his behavior and refused to help him. This annoyed the high-caste youths, one of whom told a group of Baen men, ""You should be ashamed of yourselves. We could have settled the matter like bhadrolok, but you went to court to act against your own people and to ruin the [p. 58] guy's life."" But later a Baen man wondered aloud, ""Who's a bhadrolok and who's not? It's not written on your skin. Your behavior must show it. We have suffered for many years. Those high-caste men have insulted our women on many occasions. Now we must have justice!"" Another shouted, ""I shall have no sleep until that guy goes to jail for at least ten years."" The search went on, but the police could not trace the young man."	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	jump_train	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	social group	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	24	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	A tragic incident occurred in Palashpur following the attempted rape of a young married Baen woman by a twenty-four-year-old Brahman bachelor. The young man was already known throughout the untouchable community for his promiscuity. 	6	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	cremation	no	1	x	" The Baen were frightened by this and met with CPM members at Shyambati, about a mile from Palashpur on the Palashpur-Santiniketan road. There they announced their challenge that they would fight back. Now the village was divided into two groups. When the man's body was returned, a silence fell over the community. People were ready for a storm, but one elderly Baen woman who could not bear the sight of the dead body cried loudly and ran to the home of the dead man: ""Oh, he is our son, a son of the village! I saw him as a crawling baby, so big and so healthy. Oh god, why don't you take old people like us? Here we are and he is gone. How can his parents bear this?"" She began to beat her chest, and soon other untouchable women, in tears, followed her. At first the family of the dead man did not react, then abruptly the young man's mother started to cry and pound her chest. She cried loudly. After a few minutes the people set aside their grudge against each other and lamented the tragedy. The Baen men came to the Brahman's courtyard. One said, ""Oh god, we did not want this. We just wanted to threaten him. After all, he was not that bad."" One old Brahman man said, ""What he did, all of us did in our youth. He was just very unlucky to get caught this way."" During the cremation, a huge crowd gathered to lament his death, and the funeral feast was attended by both high caste and untouchables alike. The entire event was like a social drama, turning the village scoundrel into a hero. The incident also demonstrated the rising power and determination of the Baen to react against social injustices within the community. [p. 59] The event also revealed the inherent community cohesiveness--to be able to stand together in the face of a calamity."	x	Evidence for	private	no		high	unknown
69	zgarfield	Case	Central Thai	Nevertheless, during the relatively brief period that I was in the field, three Bang Chaners (out of a population of 1,771) attempted to do away with themselves by hanging. They always selected a conspicuous place (a tree on the Minburi highway or over the main canal) and were always unsuccessful.	No evidence	x	adult	x		No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	1	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	no	No evidence		first person
69	syme	Case	Central Thai	Nevertheless, during the relatively brief period that I was in the field, three Bang Chaners (out of a population of 1,771) attempted to do away with themselves by hanging. They always selected a conspicuous place (a tree on the Minburi highway or over the main canal) and were always unsuccessful.	No evidence	x	unknown	Finally, a word should be said about the most convoluted way of expressing aggression.  	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	Finally, a word should be said about the most convoluted way of expressing aggression. 	na	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	Finally, a word should be said about the most convoluted way of expressing aggression. This is suicide, a procedure which, obviously, is applicable to only a small number of people. 	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	x	na	Finally, a word should be said about the most convoluted way of expressing aggression.  	x	x	x	na	3,rate	x	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	firsthand
71	zgarfield	Case	Central Thai	Rim had two wives. About nine o'clock at night the second wife and husband slept together. Pum, the first wife, slept nearby. That night Rim heard noises where his first wife was sleeping. He found her trying to commit suicide by tying a blanket around her throat -- (LMH 6/29/53).	No evidence	x	adult	x		No evidence	na	Evidence for	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	strangling	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	male	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	no	Evidence for		secondhand
71	syme	Case	Central Thai	Rim had two wives. About nine o'clock at night the second wife and husband slept together. Pum, the first wife, slept nearby. That night Rim heard noises where his first wife was sleeping. He found her trying to commit suicide by tying a blanket around her throat -- (LMH 6/29/53).	No evidence	x	adult	x	na	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	na	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	polygyny	na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	He found her trying to commit suicide by tying a blanket around her throat -- (LMH 6/29/53).	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence	na	na
72	zgarfield	Case	Central Thai	"A jealous husband was more successful in his effort to kill himself: ""Before Wien died, he asked his wife, 'Do you love me?' Wife: 'Yes, I love you.' But Wien did not believe her. He took a razor and touched it to his neck. Wife cried and prayed to him. She then ran into the field to call her parents, who were working in the field. Suddenly she heard the sound of a gun"" (LMH 6/30/53) Here the objective was apparently the indirect revenge of anguish and remorse, through assigning responsibility for one's death to another."	No evidence	x	adult	indirect revenge of anguish and remorse, through assigning responsibility for one's death to another.		No evidence	na	Evidence for	"""Before Wien died, he asked his wife, 'Do you love me?' Wife: 'Yes, I love you.' But Wien did not believe her. "	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	Evidence for	shooting,bleed_to_death	"Here the objective was apparently the indirect revenge of anguish and remorse, through assigning responsibility for one's death to another.
"	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	female	na	No evidence	male		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	attempt,completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	jealous	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	no	Evidence for		firsthand
72	syme	Case	Central Thai	"A jealous husband was more successful in his effort to kill himself: ""Before Wien died, he asked his wife, 'Do you love me?' Wife: 'Yes, I love you.' But Wien did not believe her. He took a razor and touched it to his neck. Wife cried and prayed to him. She then ran into the field to call her parents, who were working in the field. Suddenly she heard the sound of a gun"" (LMH 6/30/53) Here the objective was apparently the indirect revenge of anguish and remorse, through assigning responsibility for one's death to another."	Evidence for	x	adult	" A jealous husband was more successful in his effort to kill himself: ""Before Wien died, he asked his wife, 'Do you love me?' Wife: 'Yes, I love you.' But Wien did not believe her."	rejection	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	shooting	x	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male	wife	Evidence for		no evidence	attempt,completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	He took a razor and touched it to his neck.	4	x	x	x	unknown	 A jealous husband	x	x	x	na	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	documented_account
73	zgarfield	Cultural model	Central Thai	Disputes and grievances against kinsmen are frequently settled by suicide or attempted suicide	No evidence	x	adult	 Disputes and grievances against kinsmen		No evidence	na	Evidence for	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	kin	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	attempt,completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	Disputes and grievances	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence for		unknown
73	syme	Cultural model	Central Thai	Disputes and grievances against kinsmen are frequently settled by suicide or attempted suicide	No evidence	x	na	Disputes and grievances against kinsmen	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Disputes and grievances against kinsmen 	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	kin	na	na	No evidence	na	kin	Evidence for		no evidence	attempt,completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	na	x	x	x	x	na	x	x	Disputes and grievances against kinsmen are frequently settled by suicide or attempted suicide	x	No evidence	na	unknown		unknown	na
74	zgarfield	Cultural model	Central Thai	A woman who has never been legally married to her husband, whom we shall call the deserted woman, is in even more desperate trouble if she loses her husband to his other woman. The woman who is deserted has nothing to fall back on. In the eyes of the law her children are illegitimate with no rights to her husband's property. If she has little education and has no support from her family, she may end up as a menial laborer or prostitute. Deserted women have even less chance of marrying again, and some, in despair, commit suicide. It is not difficult to understand why a woman facing the possibility of such a wretched future will resort to love magic.	No evidence	x	adult	The woman who is deserted has nothing to fall back on...Deserted women have even less chance of marrying again, and some, in despair, commit suicide. 	rejection	No evidence	na	Evidence for	A woman who has never been legally married to her husband, whom we shall call the deserted woman, is in even more desperate trouble if she loses her husband to his other woman. 	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	male	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	Deserted women have even less chance of marrying again, and some, in despair, commit suicide. 	Deserted women have even less chance of marrying again, and some, in despair, commit suicide. 	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence for		na
74	syme	Cultural model	Central Thai	A woman who has never been legally married to her husband, whom we shall call the deserted woman, is in even more desperate trouble if she loses her husband to his other woman. The woman who is deserted has nothing to fall back on. In the eyes of the law her children are illegitimate with no rights to her husband's property. If she has little education and has no support from her family, she may end up as a menial laborer or prostitute. Deserted women have even less chance of marrying again, and some, in despair, commit suicide. It is not difficult to understand why a woman facing the possibility of such a wretched future will resort to love magic.	No evidence	x	adult	A woman who has never been legally married to her husband, whom we shall call the deserted woman, is in even more desperate trouble if she loses her husband to his other woman. The woman who is deserted has nothing to fall back on. In the eyes of the law her children are illegitimate with no rights to her husband's property. If she has little education and has no support from her family, she may end up as a menial laborer or prostitute. Deserted women have even less chance of marrying again, and some, in despair, commit suicide.	rejection,loss social position,resource loss	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	Deserted women have even less chance of marrying again, and some, in despair, commit suicide.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	poverty	unknown	Deserted women have even less chance of marrying again, and some, in despair, commit suicide. 	Deserted women have even less chance of marrying again, and some, in despair, commit suicide.	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence for	low	na
75	zgarfield	Case	Central Thai	"Another case is that of Clarence, a single man from another village, about twenty-two years old, who happened one day to be working on a construction gang in Bang Chan. One morning a villager happened along just in time to undo the rope by which Clarence had suspended his neck to a tree in front of Dr. Peter's house. After being revived, [p. 242] Clarence was induced to tell his tale: That morning, Clarence goes out to the fields to defecate. On the way back, suddenly everything goes black, and Clarence keels over . Now he sees beside him four or five men. The men invite Clarence to play on a swing (lo ching cha) with them. Clarence agrees. The men take Clarence to a big tree. With some ropes they make a swing. They invite Clarence to swing. He does . The next thing Clarence knew, a cluster of Bang Chan people were standing around him, trying eagerly to find out why he had attempted suicide. We will never know the biographical or psychological background of this troubled man. Nor will we know whether, or to what extent, he just ""made up"" his story. But the story is fully consistent with villagers' tendency to reason -- in this case, as often, retrospectively -- that ghosts that die violently can induce people to commit even the very violent and sinful act of suicide. Incidentally, within mere hours after this incident, Dr. Peter had cut down and disposed of the [contagiously contaminated and homeopathically suggestive] ""swing"" tree!"	No evidence	x	adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	Evidence against	x	unknown	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	other,unknown	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	attempt	22	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	On the way back, suddenly everything goes black, and Clarence keels over . 		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	Now he sees beside him four or five men. The men invite Clarence to play on a swing (lo ching cha) with them. Clarence agrees. The men take Clarence to a big tree. With some ropes they make a swing. They invite Clarence to swing. He does .	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
75	syme	Case	Central Thai	"Another case is that of Clarence, a single man from another village, about twenty-two years old, who happened one day to be working on a construction gang in Bang Chan. One morning a villager happened along just in time to undo the rope by which Clarence had suspended his neck to a tree in front of Dr. Peter's house. After being revived, [p. 242] Clarence was induced to tell his tale: That morning, Clarence goes out to the fields to defecate. On the way back, suddenly everything goes black, and Clarence keels over . Now he sees beside him four or five men. The men invite Clarence to play on a swing (lo ching cha) with them. Clarence agrees. The men take Clarence to a big tree. With some ropes they make a swing. They invite Clarence to swing. He does . The next thing Clarence knew, a cluster of Bang Chan people were standing around him, trying eagerly to find out why he had attempted suicide. We will never know the biographical or psychological background of this troubled man. Nor will we know whether, or to what extent, he just ""made up"" his story. But the story is fully consistent with villagers' tendency to reason -- in this case, as often, retrospectively -- that ghosts that die violently can induce people to commit even the very violent and sinful act of suicide. Incidentally, within mere hours after this incident, Dr. Peter had cut down and disposed of the [contagiously contaminated and homeopathically suggestive] ""swing"" tree!"	No evidence	x	young adult	Another case is that of Clarence, a single man from another village, about twenty-two years old, who happened one day to be working on a construction gang in Bang Chan. One morning a villager happened along just in time to undo the rope by which Clarence had suspended his neck to a tree in front of Dr. Peter's house. After being revived, [p. 242] Clarence was induced to tell his tale: That morning, Clarence goes out to the fields to defecate. On the way back, suddenly everything goes black, and Clarence keels over . Now he sees beside him four or five men. The men invite Clarence to play on a swing (lo ching cha) with them. Clarence agrees. The men take Clarence to a big tree. With some ropes they make a swing. They invite Clarence to swing. He does . The next thing Clarence knew, a cluster of Bang Chan people were standing around him, trying eagerly to find out why he had attempted suicide.	spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	fearfully	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	attempt	22	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"revived. Incidentally, within mere hours after this incident, Dr. Peter had cut down and disposed of the [contagiously contaminated and homeopathically suggestive] ""swing"" tree!"	x	No evidence	public	no	No evidence	average,unknown	unknown
77	zgarfield	Case	Chukchee	I know an instance of a young girl who went out to the herd and hung herself to a tree, out of anger because her mother refused to take her along to the feast in a neighboring camp.	No evidence	x	child	out of anger because her mother refused to take her along to the feast in a neighboring camp.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	out of anger because her mother refused to take her along to the feast in a neighboring camp.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	out of anger because her mother refused to take her along to the feast in a neighboring camp.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	female	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		unknown	anger	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	private	no	Evidence for		firsthand
77	syme	Case	Chukchee	I know an instance of a young girl who went out to the herd and hung herself to a tree, out of anger because her mother refused to take her along to the feast in a neighboring camp.	No evidence	x	child,young adult,unknown	out of anger because her mother refused to take her along to the feast in a neighboring camp.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	out of anger because her mother refused to take her along to the feast in a neighboring camp.	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	hanging	out of anger	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	adult	mother	female	na	No evidence	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	no	anger	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	private	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
79	zgarfield	Case	Chukchee	During the epidemic of influenza on the Wolverine River, before mentioned, there occurred two cases of suicide. One was that of a husband vexed at the loss of his young wife;	No evidence	x	adult	 loss of his young wife;	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	spouse	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	death of a loved one	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	vexed	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	no	Evidence for		first person
79	syme	Case	Chukchee	During the epidemic of influenza on the Wolverine River, before mentioned, there occurred two cases of suicide. One was that of a husband vexed at the loss of his young wife;	Evidence for	x	adult	One was that of a husband vexed at the loss of his young wife; to influenza	death loved one,disease outbreak	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	na	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male	wife	No evidence		death of loved one	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	x	unknown	vexation	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
80	zgarfield	Case	Chukchee	During the epidemic of influenza on the Wolverine River, before mentioned, there occurred two cases of suicide. One was that of a husband vexed at the loss of his young wife; the other, that of a mother who had lost her only son, a child of ten.	No evidence	x	adult	"a mother who had lost her only son, a child of ten.
"	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	offspring	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	death of a loved one	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	1	x	x		yes	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence for		firsthand
80	syme	Case	Chukchee	During the epidemic of influenza on the Wolverine River, before mentioned, there occurred two cases of suicide. One was that of a husband vexed at the loss of his young wife; the other, that of a mother who had lost her only son, a child of ten.	Evidence for	x	adult	During the epidemic of influenza on the Wolverine River, before mentioned,  the other, that of a mother who had lost her only son, a child of ten.	death loved one,disease outbreak	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female	son	No evidence		other	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	average,unknown	unknown
81	zgarfield	Case	Chukchee	There are cases of something like taedium vitae. In 1895, at the Anui fair, I spoke with a man....who declared that he did not want to live any longer. He gave as his reason, that fortune was adverse to him, that all his relatives had died, and that he was afraid that his herd at some time might begin to dwindle away, although at the time of speaking his reindeer were prospering. I did not pay much attention to his words, but the next winter I heard that he really had ordered himself to be strangled.	No evidence	x	adult	fortune was adverse to him, that all his relatives had died, and that he was afraid that his herd at some time might begin to dwindle away	death loved one,resource loss	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging,ask_someone_else	x	No evidence	Evidence for		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male	x	No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	he did not want to live any longer		unknown	x	that fortune was adverse to him, that all his relatives had died, and that he was afraid that his herd at some time might begin to dwindle away, although at the time of speaking his reindeer were prospering. 	x	x	not stated		x	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence		first person
81	syme	Case	Chukchee	There are cases of something like taedium vitae. In 1895, at the Anui fair, I spoke with a man....who declared that he did not want to live any longer. He gave as his reason, that fortune was adverse to him, that all his relatives had died, and that he was afraid that his herd at some time might begin to dwindle away, although at the time of speaking his reindeer were prospering. I did not pay much attention to his words, but the next winter I heard that he really had ordered himself to be strangled.	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	"There are cases of something like taedium vitae. 

He gave as his reason, that fortune was adverse to him, that all his relatives had died, and that he was afraid that his herd at some time might begin to dwindle away, although at the time of speaking his reindeer were prospering. I did not pay much attention to his words, but the next winter I heard that he really had ordered himself to be strangled."	death_loved_one,disease outbreak	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	gen anxiety disorder	Evidence against	ask_someone_else,strangling	There are cases of something like taedium vitae. = tired of life	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	kin	No evidence		no evidence	ideation,completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	6	x	x	x	no	There are cases of something like taedium vitae.  he was afraid that his herd at some time might begin to dwindle away, although at the time of speaking his reindeer were prospering.	There are cases of something like taedium vitae. = tired of life	x	x	not stated	1	 that he was afraid that his herd at some time might begin to dwindle away, although at the time of speaking his reindeer were prospering.	x	x	No evidence	unknown	yes	Evidence for	high,average,unknown	first person
82	zgarfield	Case	Chukchee	At the head waters of the river Omolon I met a family four of whose members had taken their own lives within four years without any apparent reason. Their neighbors felt much afraid, and expressed the opinion that the spirits who wanted more prey had treacherously led them on to self-destruction.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	fearfully	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	na		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	na	No evidence		first person
82	syme	Case	Chukchee	At the head waters of the river Omolon I met a family four of whose members had taken their own lives within four years without any apparent reason. Their neighbors felt much afraid, and expressed the opinion that the spirits who wanted more prey had treacherously led them on to self-destruction.	Evidence for	x	child,young adult,adult,elderly	Their neighbors felt much afraid, and expressed the opinion that the spirits who wanted more prey had treacherously led them on to self-destruction.	death_loved_one,spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	fearfully	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	both	kin	No evidence		death of a loved one	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	high suicide rate	yes	x	x	At the head waters of the river Omolon I met a family four of whose members had taken their own lives within four years without any apparent reason. 	x	not stated	4	x	Their neighbors felt much afraid,	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence for	unknown	secondhand
83	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chukchee	When thwarted in his purpose, the Chukchee is ready to go to any extreme, even to committing suicide, from uncontrollable rage.	No evidence	x	adult	thwarted in his purpose		No evidence	na	No evidence	thwarted in his purpose	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	na		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	thwarted, uncontrollable rage.	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		na
83	syme	Cultural model	Chukchee	When thwarted in his purpose, the Chukchee is ready to go to any extreme, even to committing suicide, from uncontrollable rage.	No evidence	x	unknown	thwarted in his purpose, 	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	na	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	When thwarted in his purpose, the Chukchee is ready to go to any extreme, even to committing suicide, from uncontrollable rage.	x	na	When thwarted in his purpose, the Chukchee is ready to go to any extreme, even to committing suicide, from uncontrollable rage.	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	yes	No evidence	unknown	na
86	zgarfield	Case	Chukchee	"""Another case illustrating the strong attachment between husband and wife is that of an old man living in the Dry Anui district, who had lived with his wife for half a century. Suddenly he declared that he wanted to take a certain girl of the vicinity for his second wife. His old wife threatened to return to her own relatives if he should take the girl. The old couple had no children living who might have prevented the dissolution of that marriage. The old man hesitated for some time; but his desire to have children--if not begotten by himself, then at least the issue of the customary group-marriage--prevailed, and he took the young woman. His first wife kept her word and left the camp, going to her brother, who lived at a distance of a hundred miles. For a few months the old man lived with his young wife; then he repined. He felt too proud, however, to go and see his old mate. Rather than do that, he requested that he be killed, which was done by strangulation with a rope.... Thus it will be seen that the married life of the Chukchee is not exempt from strong feelings and romantic episodes."""	No evidence	x	adult	He felt too proud, however, to go and see his old mate. Rather than do that, he requested that he be killed, which was done by strangulation with a rope.... 	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	His old wife threatened to return to her own relatives if he should take the girl.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	ask_someone_else,strangling	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	female	na	No evidence	male	Wife	Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		no	He felt too proud, however, to go and see his old mate.	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	no	Evidence for		first person
86	syme	Case	Chukchee	"""Another case illustrating the strong attachment between husband and wife is that of an old man living in the Dry Anui district, who had lived with his wife for half a century. Suddenly he declared that he wanted to take a certain girl of the vicinity for his second wife. His old wife threatened to return to her own relatives if he should take the girl. The old couple had no children living who might have prevented the dissolution of that marriage. The old man hesitated for some time; but his desire to have children--if not begotten by himself, then at least the issue of the customary group-marriage--prevailed, and he took the young woman. His first wife kept her word and left the camp, going to her brother, who lived at a distance of a hundred miles. For a few months the old man lived with his young wife; then he repined. He felt too proud, however, to go and see his old mate. Rather than do that, he requested that he be killed, which was done by strangulation with a rope.... Thus it will be seen that the married life of the Chukchee is not exempt from strong feelings and romantic episodes."""	Evidence for	x	adult	"For a few months the old man lived with his young wife; then he repined. He felt too proud, however, to go and see his old mate. Rather than do that, he requested that he be killed, which was done by strangulation with a rope.... Thus it will be seen that the married life of the Chukchee is not exempt from strong feelings and romantic episodes."""	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"""Another case illustrating the strong attachment between husband and wife is that of an old man living in the Dry Anui district, who had lived with his wife for half a century. Suddenly he declared that he wanted to take a certain girl of the vicinity for his second wife. His old wife threatened to return to her own relatives if he should take the girl. The old couple had no children living who might have prevented the dissolution of that marriage. The old man hesitated for some time; but his desire to have children--if not begotten by himself, then at least the issue of the customary group-marriage--prevailed, and he took the young woman. "	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	ask_someone_else,strangling	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	wife	female	na	No evidence	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	polygyny,high suicide rate	no	His first wife kept her word and left the camp, going to her brother, who lived at a distance of a hundred miles. For a few months the old man lived with his young wife; then he repined. He felt too proud, however, to go and see his old mate. 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	yes	No evidence	average,unknown	unknown
87	zgarfield	Case	Chukchee	"""In another camp of the same locality [JMR: Dry Anui River] the following happened a few years ago. A man,[unknown] Cei'pu by name, expelled his eldest son, Nuwa't, who was a very unsatisfactory herdsman, and made his younger son the principal heir....The disowned youth wandered from camp to camp, and at last came to a rich reindeer-breeder, Yo'nlI. He married Yo'nlI's daughter, and lived at his house as an adopted son-in-law. The following spring, when moving to the summer pastures, the father-in-law, who was much displeased with his work, wanted to drive him away. The young wife was with child, but among the Chukchee this forms no obstacle to the rupture of a marriage. The quarrel happened while they were travelling. The young man said nothing; but after a while he sat down on his wife's sledge, embraced her from behind, drew his knife, and cut open her abdomen. Then he jumped from the sledge and cut his own throat."""	No evidence	x	adult	The following spring, when moving to the summer pastures, the father-in-law, who was much displeased with his work, wanted to drive him away.	interpersonal confli	Evidence for	other	Evidence for	The following spring, when moving to the summer pastures, the father-in-law, who was much displeased with his work, wanted to drive him away.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	bleed_to_death	x	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	kin	male	na	No evidence	male	Father-in law	Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		yes	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	no	No evidence		firsthand
87	syme	Case	Chukchee	"""In another camp of the same locality [JMR: Dry Anui River] the following happened a few years ago. A man,[unknown] Cei'pu by name, expelled his eldest son, Nuwa't, who was a very unsatisfactory herdsman, and made his younger son the principal heir....The disowned youth wandered from camp to camp, and at last came to a rich reindeer-breeder, Yo'nlI. He married Yo'nlI's daughter, and lived at his house as an adopted son-in-law. The following spring, when moving to the summer pastures, the father-in-law, who was much displeased with his work, wanted to drive him away. The young wife was with child, but among the Chukchee this forms no obstacle to the rupture of a marriage. The quarrel happened while they were travelling. The young man said nothing; but after a while he sat down on his wife's sledge, embraced her from behind, drew his knife, and cut open her abdomen. Then he jumped from the sledge and cut his own throat."""	Evidence for	x	young adult,adult	In another camp of the same locality [JMR: Dry Anui River] the following happened a few years ago. A man,[unknown] Cei'pu by name, expelled his eldest son, Nuwa't, who was a very unsatisfactory herdsman, and made his younger son the principal heir....The disowned youth wandered from camp to camp, and at last came to a rich reindeer-breeder, Yo'nlI. He married Yo'nlI's daughter, and lived at his house as an adopted son-in-law. The following spring, when moving to the summer pastures, the father-in-law, who was much displeased with his work, wanted to drive him away. 	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo,rejection,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	In another camp of the same locality [JMR: Dry Anui River] the following happened a few years ago. A man,[unknown] Cei'pu by name, expelled his eldest son, Nuwa't, who was a very unsatisfactory herdsman, and made his younger son the principal heir....The disowned youth wandered from camp to camp, and at last came to a rich reindeer-breeder, Yo'nlI. He married Yo'nlI's daughter, and lived at his house as an adopted son-in-law. The following spring, when moving to the summer pastures, the father-in-law, who was much displeased with his work, wanted to drive him away. 	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	bleed_to_death	x	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	adult	father in law	male	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence against		perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	pregnancy,commit homicide	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	private	no	Evidence for	low,unknown	unknown
88	zgarfield	Case	Chukchee	Voluntary death is still of frequent occurrence among the Chukchee. It is inflicted by a friend or relative, upon the expressed wish of the person who desires to die. Though I had no occasion to witness a case of voluntary death, I know of about twenty cases which happened among the Chukchee during the time of my travels.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	na		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	0	x	x		na	x	x	x	x	no	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	no	No evidence		firsthand
88	syme	Case	Chukchee	Voluntary death is still of frequent occurrence among the Chukchee. It is inflicted by a friend or relative, upon the expressed wish of the person who desires to die. Though I had no occasion to witness a case of voluntary death, I know of about twenty cases which happened among the Chukchee during the time of my travels.	No evidence	x	unknown	x		No evidence	na	No evidence	x	na	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	ask_someone_else	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	1	x	x	high suicide rate	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	20,rate	x	x	x	No evidence	public	yes	No evidence	unknown	secondhand
89	zgarfield	Case	Chukchee	One summer, while I was at Mariinsky Post, a large skin boat from the Telq'p tundra arrived for trading-purposes. One of the new-comers, after a visit to the Russian barracks, felt a sudden pain in his stomach. During the night the pain became acute, the sufferer asked to be killed, and his fellow-travellers complied with his request.	No evidence	x	adult	One of the new-comers, after a visit to the Russian barracks, felt a sudden pain in his stomach. During the night the pain became acute, the sufferer asked to be killed, and his fellow-travellers complied with his request.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	ask_someone_else	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	acute	gastrointestinal*	x	2	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	a sudden pain in his stomach. During the night the pain became acute	No evidence	public	no	Evidence against		first person
89	syme	Case	Chukchee	One summer, while I was at Mariinsky Post, a large skin boat from the Telq'p tundra arrived for trading-purposes. One of the new-comers, after a visit to the Russian barracks, felt a sudden pain in his stomach. During the night the pain became acute, the sufferer asked to be killed, and his fellow-travellers complied with his request.	Evidence for	x	adult	One summer, while I was at Mariinsky Post, a large skin boat from the Telq'p tundra arrived for trading-purposes. One of the new-comers, after a visit to the Russian barracks, felt a sudden pain in his stomach. During the night the pain became acute, the sufferer asked to be killed, and his fellow-travellers complied with his request.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	ask_someone_else,not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	severe,acute	gastrointestinal 	x	3	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	 felt a sudden pain in his stomach. During the night the pain became acute, the sufferer asked to be killed, and his fellow-travellers complied with his request.	No evidence	public	yes	Evidence against	average,unknown	unknown
90	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chukchee	From what has been related, it will be seen that the voluntary death of old men is not prompted by any lack of good feeling towards the old men, but rather by the hard conditions of their life, which make existence almost unendurable for any one unable to take full care of himself. Accordingly, not only old people, but also those afflicted by some illness, often prefer death to continued suffering; and their number is even greater than that of old people who die a voluntary death.	Evidence for	x	adult	the hard conditions of their life, which make existence almost unendurable for any one unable to take full care of himself.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	ask_someone_else	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence against	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	chronic	other chronic pain	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	but rather by the hard conditions of their life, which make existence almost unendurable for any one unable to take full care of himself. Accordingly, not only old people, but also those afflicted by some illness, often prefer death to continued suffering	No evidence	public	no	Evidence against		secondhand
90	syme	Cultural model	Chukchee	From what has been related, it will be seen that the voluntary death of old men is not prompted by any lack of good feeling towards the old men, but rather by the hard conditions of their life, which make existence almost unendurable for any one unable to take full care of himself. Accordingly, not only old people, but also those afflicted by some illness, often prefer death to continued suffering; and their number is even greater than that of old people who die a voluntary death.	Evidence for	x	adult,elderly	"Quote: From what has been related, it will be seen that the voluntary death of old men is not prompted by any lack of good feeling towards the old men, but rather by the hard conditions of their life, which make existence almost unendurable for any one unable to take full care of himself. Accordingly, not only old people, but also those afflicted by some illness, often prefer death to continued suffering; and their number is even greater than that of old people who die a voluntary death.
"	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	 which make existence almost unendurable for any one unable to take full care of himself. 	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	severe,chronic,acute	unknown	x	2	x	x	high suicide rate	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	"Quote: From what has been related, it will be seen that the voluntary death of old men is not prompted by any lack of good feeling towards the old men, but rather by the hard conditions of their life, which make existence almost unendurable for any one unable to take full care of himself. Accordingly, not only old people, but also those afflicted by some illness, often prefer death to continued suffering; and their number is even greater than that of old people who die a voluntary death.
"	No evidence	unknown	yes	No evidence	average,unknown	na
93	zgarfield	Case	Chukchee	Another case of the same character refers to a widow of forty, who lived with her son and two nephews, being an owner of a considerable herd. She felt that life held no pleasures for her. She was in fear that her herd might decrease, and that she would feel ashamed to live. She died by strangulation. The case was related to me by Aianwa't.	No evidence	x	adult	She felt that life held no pleasures for her. She was in fear that her herd might decrease, and that she would feel ashamed to live.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	depression	No evidence	strangling	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	40	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x		yes	She felt that life held no pleasures for her. She was in fear that her herd might decrease, and that she would feel ashamed to live.	She felt that life held no pleasures for her. She was in fear that her herd might decrease, and that she would feel ashamed to live.	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		secondhand
93	syme	Case	Chukchee	Another case of the same character refers to a widow of forty, who lived with her son and two nephews, being an owner of a considerable herd. She felt that life held no pleasures for her. She was in fear that her herd might decrease, and that she would feel ashamed to live. She died by strangulation. The case was related to me by Aianwa't.	Evidence for	neutral	adult	Another case of the same character refers to a widow of forty, who lived with her son and two nephews, being an owner of a considerable herd. She felt that life held no pleasures for her. She was in fear that her herd might decrease, and that she would feel ashamed to live. She died by strangulation. The case was related to me by Aianwa't.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	ambivalently	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	gen anxiety disorder	Evidence against	ask_someone_else,strangling	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	Evidence for		death of a loved one	completion	40	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	Another case of the same character refers to a widow of forty, who lived with her son and two nephews, being an owner of a considerable herd. She felt that life held no pleasures for her. She was in fear that her herd might decrease, and that she would feel ashamed to live. She died by strangulation. The case was related to me by Aianwa't.	high suicide rate	unknown	"Another case of the same character refers to a widow of forty, who lived with her son and two nephews, being an owner of a considerable herd. She felt that life held no pleasures for her. She was in fear that her herd might decrease, and that she would feel ashamed to live. She died by strangulation. The case was related to me by Aianwa't.

anhedonia
fear/anxiety"	Another case of the same character refers to a widow of forty, who lived with her son and two nephews, being an owner of a considerable herd. She felt that life held no pleasures for her. She was in fear that her herd might decrease, and that she would feel ashamed to live. She died by strangulation. The case was related to me by Aianwa't.	x	x	not stated	1	Another case of the same character refers to a widow of forty, who lived with her son and two nephews, being an owner of a considerable herd. She felt that life held no pleasures for her. She was in fear that her herd might decrease, and that she would feel ashamed to live. She died by strangulation. The case was related to me by Aianwa't.	x	x	No evidence	public	yes	No evidence	high,average,unknown	secondhand
94	zgarfield	Case	Chukchee	"Thus Aianwa't told me how some years ago his neighbor in camp, Little-Spoon by name, requested that he be killed. 'He and his wife often quarrelled because they had very bad sons. From quarrelling with his wife came his desire to be killed. One day his elder son and his mother picked a quarrel with him. Then he asked to be killed.'.... [p. 565-567] ""Another story refers to a desire for voluntary death once expressed and then revoked. The story is as follows:--'My neighbor in the camp, Little-Spoon by name, also asked to be killed. With many words he persuaded his house-mates. Before that, he had quarrelled with his wife. They had very bad sons. His sons and their mother quarrelled with their father. For that reason he was angered. Therefore he asked to be killed. They had only one driving-reindeer, almost no other reindeer. The other sons slaughtered a woman's driving-reindeer led by the halter (i.e., very well broken), because he had many more sons. But the oldest son quarrelled with him. Therefore it was necessary to kill a reindeer-buck for his last meal. We thought he was really asking to be killed. We made haste and prepared everything necessary. We replaced the broken and mended parts of the sledges with new ones, for our people consider a repaired sledge not fit for use in death. If something broken and repaired breaks again on the trail of the dead, what would he (the dead one) do? The dog people live halfway; and when the one who died reaches them, the dead come to meet him. They know that he is coming, and say, ""He will lose his way."" They are aware of his helplessness, because there are many paths, all leading to the relatives among the dead. For that reason the reindeer and the clothes of other people must not be used. The dead people going to and fro in their own country move windward, and catch the smell, saying, ""These clothes have an odor of our home."" Then they take them away. Therefore nothing belonging to other men must be used. Poor men will use only suits of clothes of their own. New clothes, taken from others, or received as a gift, are put aside. Things very bad, but one's own, are put into use. I must say the truth, the dead people are very bad people. They would not say, ""Leave him alone!"".... Meanwhile, whence do the living people know all about it? To be sure, many of our people come back from the trail of the dead. Probably they have made known the customs of the country of the dead. Many dead ones are turned back by the power of incantations. Even I, when I was rich, received several such incantations from hungry old women, gratifying their stomach with food. But I am sorry to say that at present I have lost those incantations, being so poor. A man going along the trail of the dead may be turned back by a dog. The shaman bites the left ear of the dog, and says to it, ""Go and bring back thy master. We will feed thee with the best food."" (He may also be brought back with an incantation.) One with a slight disease may be turned back where the trailis barred by a dog, which, springing at his face, makes him come back. One with a serious disease would not yield. When a man coming back from the dead has turned back, the dog is killed. The Reindeer people keep dogs because they are very strong in bringing back those dying ones. Is there any other use for them? We have to feed them. I cannot deny, however, that the dog is good for many other uses. In hunting big game, he has a loud voice, that is a useful protection against a bear met unexpectedly in the dark. You know it yourself,--everybody has a dog, many of the people have dogs. When we travelled with you, nobody was without a dog. In connection with this, when a man goes along the trail of the dead, it is useless to take a reindeer for an incantation. The reindeer is full of fear. It runs from afar and exerts no influence; it is only visible to eyes. To be sure, it appears (on the trail), but only from afar. And when a man is quite dead and has ceased breathing, those who are living do not weep for him,--those looking (upon the world) members of his family. They do not weep shortly after he is dead. Weeping is sinful. The one who has a slight disease is rejected by the dead. They say, ""Why did you come? Go away, go home."" Then he goes away, returns home. It appears in various ways. One may breathe, but he will lost his wits. In this case he probably has an hallucination. He says, ""I have come back from the dead."" Some people eat fly-agaric. Those from the Anadyr bring fly-agaric. Before eating, they say to it, ""Take me to the dead;"" and indeed, they are taken there. He sinks down, falls into a swoon, and then he is taken away,--not his body, but only his soul. And some one who has a hidden disease may stay there forever. Therefore what has been said about the taking-away of clothes must have become known through those who eat fly-agaric. Indeed, from three sources it may become known, --from those who are turned back by dogs, from those sent back by the Merciful Being because the dead have rejected them (these first two bring tidings), and from those who eat fly-agaric. Little-Spoon, however, unexpectedly stopped his preparations, although before it seemed that he had made up his mind. We had made all the necessary preparations, and were gathering our sledges and the other things required; but we were disappointed, for evening came, and we were still waiting in vain. Finally we could not wait any longer, and stopped our preparations. Evening came, night came. We were speechless. He had only gorged himself. He had eaten the best and sweetest morsels. I questioned his sons, and said to them, ""Well, what is he doing?"" They replied, ""We will begin after he has eaten."" Then they said, ""He has gone to sleep."" The sledge remained behind the tent all night, as though in readiness for one really dead. The following morning, when he awoke, he would not come out of the sleeping-room. He remained there all the time. Among us reindeer-breeders it is a great sin to talk about voluntary death without executing one's intentions: therefore the next fall three of his sons died. Thus he brought a great misfortune upon himself by talking about voluntary death. I sent him away, saying, ""Do not stay here. We might become unlucky; we might lose our reindeer or have other misfortunes."" Therefore we separated. Another year he died on the western tundra. And I say once more, when somebody speaks about voluntary death, the Outer Being hears his words. Should he say ever so little about it, he has to buy it off with heavy ransom. When his house-mates induce him to retract his intented [sic] promise, he gives away whatever is nearest to his heart. He gives it in ransom to the Outer Being, on account of a single word about voluntary death, saying, ""This is my body, I have spoken foolishly."" He gives as a sacrifice, on account of his word, something that he values most. This is because many who are sick ask for death and then recover, or are restrained by words of their friends and do not go away."	No evidence	x	young adult	'He and his wife often quarrelled because they had very bad sons. From quarrelling with his wife came his desire to be killed	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	'He and his wife often quarrelled because they had very bad sons. From quarrelling with his wife came his desire to be killed	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	ask_someone_else	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	female	na	No evidence	male	wife	Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		yes	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		first person
94	syme	Case	Chukchee	"Thus Aianwa't told me how some years ago his neighbor in camp, Little-Spoon by name, requested that he be killed. 'He and his wife often quarrelled because they had very bad sons. From quarrelling with his wife came his desire to be killed. One day his elder son and his mother picked a quarrel with him. Then he asked to be killed.'.... [p. 565-567] ""Another story refers to a desire for voluntary death once expressed and then revoked. The story is as follows:--'My neighbor in the camp, Little-Spoon by name, also asked to be killed. With many words he persuaded his house-mates. Before that, he had quarrelled with his wife. They had very bad sons. His sons and their mother quarrelled with their father. For that reason he was angered. Therefore he asked to be killed. They had only one driving-reindeer, almost no other reindeer. The other sons slaughtered a woman's driving-reindeer led by the halter (i.e., very well broken), because he had many more sons. But the oldest son quarrelled with him. Therefore it was necessary to kill a reindeer-buck for his last meal. We thought he was really asking to be killed. We made haste and prepared everything necessary. We replaced the broken and mended parts of the sledges with new ones, for our people consider a repaired sledge not fit for use in death. If something broken and repaired breaks again on the trail of the dead, what would he (the dead one) do? The dog people live halfway; and when the one who died reaches them, the dead come to meet him. They know that he is coming, and say, ""He will lose his way."" They are aware of his helplessness, because there are many paths, all leading to the relatives among the dead. For that reason the reindeer and the clothes of other people must not be used. The dead people going to and fro in their own country move windward, and catch the smell, saying, ""These clothes have an odor of our home."" Then they take them away. Therefore nothing belonging to other men must be used. Poor men will use only suits of clothes of their own. New clothes, taken from others, or received as a gift, are put aside. Things very bad, but one's own, are put into use. I must say the truth, the dead people are very bad people. They would not say, ""Leave him alone!"".... Meanwhile, whence do the living people know all about it? To be sure, many of our people come back from the trail of the dead. Probably they have made known the customs of the country of the dead. Many dead ones are turned back by the power of incantations. Even I, when I was rich, received several such incantations from hungry old women, gratifying their stomach with food. But I am sorry to say that at present I have lost those incantations, being so poor. A man going along the trail of the dead may be turned back by a dog. The shaman bites the left ear of the dog, and says to it, ""Go and bring back thy master. We will feed thee with the best food."" (He may also be brought back with an incantation.) One with a slight disease may be turned back where the trailis barred by a dog, which, springing at his face, makes him come back. One with a serious disease would not yield. When a man coming back from the dead has turned back, the dog is killed. The Reindeer people keep dogs because they are very strong in bringing back those dying ones. Is there any other use for them? We have to feed them. I cannot deny, however, that the dog is good for many other uses. In hunting big game, he has a loud voice, that is a useful protection against a bear met unexpectedly in the dark. You know it yourself,--everybody has a dog, many of the people have dogs. When we travelled with you, nobody was without a dog. In connection with this, when a man goes along the trail of the dead, it is useless to take a reindeer for an incantation. The reindeer is full of fear. It runs from afar and exerts no influence; it is only visible to eyes. To be sure, it appears (on the trail), but only from afar. And when a man is quite dead and has ceased breathing, those who are living do not weep for him,--those looking (upon the world) members of his family. They do not weep shortly after he is dead. Weeping is sinful. The one who has a slight disease is rejected by the dead. They say, ""Why did you come? Go away, go home."" Then he goes away, returns home. It appears in various ways. One may breathe, but he will lost his wits. In this case he probably has an hallucination. He says, ""I have come back from the dead."" Some people eat fly-agaric. Those from the Anadyr bring fly-agaric. Before eating, they say to it, ""Take me to the dead;"" and indeed, they are taken there. He sinks down, falls into a swoon, and then he is taken away,--not his body, but only his soul. And some one who has a hidden disease may stay there forever. Therefore what has been said about the taking-away of clothes must have become known through those who eat fly-agaric. Indeed, from three sources it may become known, --from those who are turned back by dogs, from those sent back by the Merciful Being because the dead have rejected them (these first two bring tidings), and from those who eat fly-agaric. Little-Spoon, however, unexpectedly stopped his preparations, although before it seemed that he had made up his mind. We had made all the necessary preparations, and were gathering our sledges and the other things required; but we were disappointed, for evening came, and we were still waiting in vain. Finally we could not wait any longer, and stopped our preparations. Evening came, night came. We were speechless. He had only gorged himself. He had eaten the best and sweetest morsels. I questioned his sons, and said to them, ""Well, what is he doing?"" They replied, ""We will begin after he has eaten."" Then they said, ""He has gone to sleep."" The sledge remained behind the tent all night, as though in readiness for one really dead. The following morning, when he awoke, he would not come out of the sleeping-room. He remained there all the time. Among us reindeer-breeders it is a great sin to talk about voluntary death without executing one's intentions: therefore the next fall three of his sons died. Thus he brought a great misfortune upon himself by talking about voluntary death. I sent him away, saying, ""Do not stay here. We might become unlucky; we might lose our reindeer or have other misfortunes."" Therefore we separated. Another year he died on the western tundra. And I say once more, when somebody speaks about voluntary death, the Outer Being hears his words. Should he say ever so little about it, he has to buy it off with heavy ransom. When his house-mates induce him to retract his intented [sic] promise, he gives away whatever is nearest to his heart. He gives it in ransom to the Outer Being, on account of a single word about voluntary death, saying, ""This is my body, I have spoken foolishly."" He gives as a sacrifice, on account of his word, something that he values most. This is because many who are sick ask for death and then recover, or are restrained by words of their friends and do not go away."	Evidence for	neutral	adult	'My neighbor in the camp, Little-Spoon by name, also asked to be killed. With many words he persuaded his house-mates. Before that, he had quarrelled with his wife. They had very bad sons. His sons and their mother quarrelled with their father. For that reason he was angered. Therefore he asked to be killed. They had only one driving-reindeer, almost no other reindeer. The other sons slaughtered a woman's driving-reindeer led by the halter (i.e., very well broken), because he had many more sons. But the oldest son quarrelled with him. Therefore it was necessary to kill a reindeer-buck for his last meal. We thought he was really asking to be killed. We made haste and prepared everything necessary.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	'My neighbor in the camp, Little-Spoon by name, also asked to be killed. With many words he persuaded his house-mates. Before that, he had quarrelled with his wife. They had very bad sons. His sons and their mother quarrelled with their father. For that reason he was angered. Therefore he asked to be killed. They had only one driving-reindeer, almost no other reindeer. The other sons slaughtered a woman's driving-reindeer led by the halter (i.e., very well broken), because he had many more sons. But the oldest son quarrelled with him. Therefore it was necessary to kill a reindeer-buck for his last meal. We thought he was really asking to be killed. We made haste and prepared everything necessary.	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	ask_someone_else	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult,unknown	wife,sons	both	na	No evidence	male	wife,sons	Evidence for		no evidence	threat	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x	high suicide rate	unknown	anger	x	x	left out on tundra	not stated	1	x	"Thus he brought a great misfortune upon himself by talking about voluntary death. I sent him away, saying, ""Do not stay here. We might become unlucky; we might lose our reindeer or have other misfortunes."" Therefore we separated. Another year he died on the western tundra. And I say once more, when somebody speaks about voluntary death, the Outer Being hears his words. Should he say ever so little about it, he has to buy it off with heavy ransom. When his house-mates induce him to retract his intented [sic] promise, he gives away whatever is nearest to his heart. He gives it in ransom to the Outer Being, on account of a single word about voluntary death, saying, ""This is my body, I have spoken foolishly."" He gives as a sacrifice, on account of his word, something that he values most. This is because many who are sick ask for death and then recover, or are restrained by words of their friends and do not go away."	x	No evidence	public	yes	Evidence for	average,unknown	secondhand
98	zgarfield	Case	Chukchee	Ai'gInto said, 'Oh! they (the kelet [JMR: harmful spirits]) have stolen my son. How can I continue to live? I am childless. My son is stolen. Why should I live any longer? Do something to me (i.e., kill me)!' -- 'No,' said the master of the camp, 'why should I do such a thing to (against) my spleen-companion?'2 --'No, no, do it. Have you any white driving-reindeer?'--'I have.'--'Have you white clothes?' -- 'I have.'--'Have you a white cap, white boots, white mittens, a white rug?'--'I have everything.'-- 'These shall be for my departure. Then do it.'--'No, no, I cannot. Let me give you one of my own sons. Let each of us have one son.'--'I do not want other men's sons. Where is my own son? Make haste!'--'No, no! Let me give you both my sons. Let me be childless.'--'I do not want them. Where is my own boy? Here, kill me!' They quarrelled the whole day long. Ai'gInto reproved the master bitterly, so that the latter had to yield....	No evidence	x	adult	How can I continue to live? I am childless. My son is stolen. 	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	Why should I live any longer? Do something to me (i.e., kill me)!' -- 'No,' said the master of the camp, 	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	ask_someone_else	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	social superior	male	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	other	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		no	How can I continue to live? 	How can I continue to live? I am childless. My son is stolen. Why should I live any longer? Do something to me (i.e., kill me)!'	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	Evidence against		first person
98	syme	Case	Chukchee	Ai'gInto said, 'Oh! they (the kelet [JMR: harmful spirits]) have stolen my son. How can I continue to live? I am childless. My son is stolen. Why should I live any longer? Do something to me (i.e., kill me)!' -- 'No,' said the master of the camp, 'why should I do such a thing to (against) my spleen-companion?'2 --'No, no, do it. Have you any white driving-reindeer?'--'I have.'--'Have you white clothes?' -- 'I have.'--'Have you a white cap, white boots, white mittens, a white rug?'--'I have everything.'-- 'These shall be for my departure. Then do it.'--'No, no, I cannot. Let me give you one of my own sons. Let each of us have one son.'--'I do not want other men's sons. Where is my own son? Make haste!'--'No, no! Let me give you both my sons. Let me be childless.'--'I do not want them. Where is my own boy? Here, kill me!' They quarrelled the whole day long. Ai'gInto reproved the master bitterly, so that the latter had to yield....	Evidence for	neutral	adult	Ai'gInto said, 'Oh! they (the kelet [JMR: harmful spirits]) have stolen my son. How can I continue to live? I am childless. My son is stolen. Why should I live any longer? Do something to me (i.e., kill me)!	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly,ambivalently	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	ask_someone_else,not_stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male	son	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	high suicide rate	no	"Ai'gInto said, 'Oh! they (the kelet [JMR: harmful spirits]) have stolen my son. How can I continue to live? I am childless. My son is stolen. Why should I live any longer? Do something to me (i.e., kill me)!' -- 'No,' said the master of the camp, 'why should I do such a thing to (against) my spleen-companion?'2 --'No, no, do it. Have you any white driving-reindeer?'--'I have.'--'Have you white clothes?' -- 'I have.'--'Have you a white cap, white boots, white mittens, a white rug?'--'I have everything.'-- 'These shall be for my departure. Then do it.'--'No, no, I cannot. Let me give you one of my own sons. Let each of us have one son.'--'I do not want other men's sons. Where is my own son? Make haste!'--'No, no! Let me give you both my sons. Let me be childless.'--'I do not want them. Where is my own boy? Here, kill me!' They quarrelled the whole day long. Ai'gInto reproved the master bitterly, so that the latter had to yield....

sadness and anger"	 My son is stolen. Why should I live any longer? 	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	no	No evidence	average	secondhand
99	zgarfield	Case	Chukchee	"Oh! why have I not begun with the father first? He was breaking wind badly, and could not defecate normally. In his anus was formed a white stone, a soft one, round in form and polished. They found it in his rectum after his death. That one asked to be killed. The elder son was assisting him. He seemed sighing his last, but unexpectedly tore out the knife and came to life again. Since he could not be killed by stabbing, he said, ""Tighten it on me!"" So they strangled him with a rope. When he was dead, they carried him away into the tundra, and, putting his body on the ground, investigated his rectum. There they found the white stone. Still when alive, he defecated stone or sand, and who knows what not!"	Evidence for	x	adult	He was breaking wind badly, and could not defecate normally. In his anus was formed a white stone, a soft one, round in form and polished. They found it in his rectum after his death. That one asked to be killed	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	strangling,stabbing	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	severe	gastrointestinal*	x	3	x	x		yes	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	He was breaking wind badly, and could not defecate normally. In his anus was formed a white stone, a soft one, round in form and polished. They found it in his rectum after his death.	No evidence	public	unknown	Evidence against		firsthand
99	syme	Case	Chukchee	"Oh! why have I not begun with the father first? He was breaking wind badly, and could not defecate normally. In his anus was formed a white stone, a soft one, round in form and polished. They found it in his rectum after his death. That one asked to be killed. The elder son was assisting him. He seemed sighing his last, but unexpectedly tore out the knife and came to life again. Since he could not be killed by stabbing, he said, ""Tighten it on me!"" So they strangled him with a rope. When he was dead, they carried him away into the tundra, and, putting his body on the ground, investigated his rectum. There they found the white stone. Still when alive, he defecated stone or sand, and who knows what not!"	Evidence for	neutral	adult,elderly,unknown	"Oh! why have I not begun with the father first? He was breaking wind badly, and could not defecate normally. In his anus was formed a white stone, a soft one, round in form and polished. They found it in his rectum after his death. That one asked to be killed. The elder son was assisting him. He seemed sighing his last, but unexpectedly tore out the knife and came to life again. Since he could not be killed by stabbing, he said, ""Tighten it on me!"" So they strangled him with a rope."	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly,ambivalently	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	ask_someone_else,strangling	"Oh! why have I not begun with the father first? He was breaking wind badly, and could not defecate normally. In his anus was formed a white stone, a soft one, round in form and polished. They found it in his rectum after his death. That one asked to be killed. The elder son was assisting him. He seemed sighing his last, but unexpectedly tore out the knife and came to life again. Since he could not be killed by stabbing, he said, ""Tighten it on me!"" So they strangled him with a rope. When he was dead, they carried him away into the tundra, and, putting his body on the ground, investigated his rectum. There they found the white stone. Still when alive, he defecated stone or sand, and who knows what not!"	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	severe,acute	gastrointestinal*	x	4	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	left out on the tundra	not stated	1	x	x	"Oh! why have I not begun with the father first? He was breaking wind badly, and could not defecate normally. In his anus was formed a white stone, a soft one, round in form and polished. They found it in his rectum after his death. That one asked to be killed. The elder son was assisting him. He seemed sighing his last, but unexpectedly tore out the knife and came to life again. Since he could not be killed by stabbing, he said, ""Tighten it on me!"" So they strangled him with a rope. "	No evidence	public	no	Evidence against	average	secondhand
100	zgarfield	Case	Chukchee	"'One ElI'hIkI had taken a great quantity of goods on credit from a merchant of Yakutsk. Several years passed, and the debt was not fully covered. One spring he left his home and went to Sredne-Kolymsk from a distant place in the tundra. At the same time all the people passed over to the other shore of the Omolon River. His brother was Rultu'wgi. They drank brandy there in the tent of U'nkuul, a Tungus. A hernia, which was an object of constant care with him, was frost-bitten, and therefore refused to go in. Thus ill-luck visited him. He suffered great pain and sorrow because he could not put his bowels in place. Therefore he began to speak, requesting his companion in marriage to give him death. U'nkuul was his companion in marriage. The neighboring camp was that of his younger brother. ElI'hikI went to the town with them, without a tent of his own. His wife had very small children, (and could not go with them.) Then he was afflicted in the manner aforesaid; and, since his father died a voluntary death, he wanted to imitate his father. [Story of father's voluntary death] Therefore, being at the tent of his marriage-companion, he asked to be killed. They listened to him, and wanted to obey him. In obedience to him, they put him on a grated sled and took him to his brother's tent. There they executed his desire. The younger brother was assisting him, but he could not do it in a proper way. His hand trembled. He himself said, ""There, turn the knife a little more aside;"" but his assistant could not do it. Then he used that very word of his father,....""Tighten it on me!"" Indeed, they strangled him with a rope and killed him. That was the end.'"	Evidence for	x	adult	He was breaking wind badly, and could not defecate normally. In his anus was formed a white stone, a soft one, round in form and polished. They found it in his rectum after his death. That one asked to be killed	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	ask_someone_else,strangling,stabbing	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	severe	gastrointestinal*	x	3	x	x		yes	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	He was breaking wind badly, and could not defecate normally. In his anus was formed a white stone, a soft one, round in form and polished. They found it in his rectum after his death.	No evidence	public	unknown	Evidence against		firsthand
100	syme	Case	Chukchee	"'One ElI'hIkI had taken a great quantity of goods on credit from a merchant of Yakutsk. Several years passed, and the debt was not fully covered. One spring he left his home and went to Sredne-Kolymsk from a distant place in the tundra. At the same time all the people passed over to the other shore of the Omolon River. His brother was Rultu'wgi. They drank brandy there in the tent of U'nkuul, a Tungus. A hernia, which was an object of constant care with him, was frost-bitten, and therefore refused to go in. Thus ill-luck visited him. He suffered great pain and sorrow because he could not put his bowels in place. Therefore he began to speak, requesting his companion in marriage to give him death. U'nkuul was his companion in marriage. The neighboring camp was that of his younger brother. ElI'hikI went to the town with them, without a tent of his own. His wife had very small children, (and could not go with them.) Then he was afflicted in the manner aforesaid; and, since his father died a voluntary death, he wanted to imitate his father. [Story of father's voluntary death] Therefore, being at the tent of his marriage-companion, he asked to be killed. They listened to him, and wanted to obey him. In obedience to him, they put him on a grated sled and took him to his brother's tent. There they executed his desire. The younger brother was assisting him, but he could not do it in a proper way. His hand trembled. He himself said, ""There, turn the knife a little more aside;"" but his assistant could not do it. Then he used that very word of his father,....""Tighten it on me!"" Indeed, they strangled him with a rope and killed him. That was the end.'"	Evidence for	neutral	adult	'One ElI'hIkI had taken a great quantity of goods on credit from a merchant of Yakutsk. Several years passed, and the debt was not fully covered. One spring he left his home and went to Sredne-Kolymsk from a distant place in the tundra. At the same time all the people passed over to the other shore of the Omolon River. His brother was Rultu'wgi. They drank brandy there in the tent of U'nkuul, a Tungus. A hernia, which was an object of constant care with him, was frost-bitten, and therefore refused to go in. Thus ill-luck visited him. He suffered great pain and sorrow because he could not put his bowels in place. Therefore he began to speak, requesting his companion in marriage to give him death. U'nkuul was his companion in marriage. The neighboring camp was that of his younger brother. ElI'hikI went to the town with them, without a tent of his own. His wife had very small children, (and could not go with them.) Then he was afflicted in the manner aforesaid; and, since his father died a voluntary death, he wanted to imitate his father. [Story of father's voluntary death] Therefore, being at the tent of his marriage-companion, he asked to be killed. They listened to him, and wanted to obey him. In obedience to him, they put him on a grated sled and took him to his brother's tent. 	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly,ambivalently	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	ask_someone_else,strangling,stabbing	 Therefore he began to speak, requesting his companion in marriage to give him death. U'nkuul was his companion in marriage. The neighboring camp was that of his younger brother. ElI'hikI went to the town with them, without a tent of his own. His wife had very small children, (and could not go with them.) Then he was afflicted in the manner aforesaid; and, since his father died a voluntary death, he wanted to imitate his father. [Story of father's voluntary death] Therefore, being at the tent of his marriage-companion, he asked to be killed. They listened to him, and wanted to obey him. In obedience to him, they put him on a grated sled and took him to his brother's tent. There they executed his desire. 	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	na	x	na	father	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	severe,chronic	gastrointestinal*	x	6	x	x	high suicide rate	yes	sorrow	x	x	out on tundra	not stated	1	drank brandy	x	A hernia, which was an object of constant care with him, was frost-bitten, and therefore refused to go in. Thus ill-luck visited him. He suffered great pain and sorrow because he could not put his bowels in place. 	No evidence	public	yes	Evidence against	average	secondhand
101	zgarfield	Case	Chukchee	"[p. 567-568] ""Voluntary death occurs also among the Maritime Chukchee and the Eskimo, and with the same details as among the Reindeer people. I know of only a few cases, however. Thus, in the village of Eu'nmum, a man of middle age, who suffered from an abscess in his side, had himself strangled with a rope."	Evidence for	x	adult	"Thus, in the village of Eu'nmum, a man of middle age, who suffered from an abscess in his side, had himself strangled with a rope.
"	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	strangling	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	other	x	4	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	"Thus, in the village of Eu'nmum, a man of middle age, who suffered from an abscess in his side, had himself strangled with a rope.
"	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		secondhand
101	syme	Case	Chukchee	"[p. 567-568] ""Voluntary death occurs also among the Maritime Chukchee and the Eskimo, and with the same details as among the Reindeer people. I know of only a few cases, however. Thus, in the village of Eu'nmum, a man of middle age, who suffered from an abscess in his side, had himself strangled with a rope."	Evidence for	neutral	adult	an abscess in his side, had himself strangled with a rope	other	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	x	approvingly,ambivalently	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	ask_someone_else,strangling	who suffered from an abscess in his side, had himself strangled with a rope	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	x	male	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	40ish	No evidence	severe	gastrointestinal*	x	4	x	x	high rate of suicide	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	who suffered from an abscess in his side, had himself strangled with a rope	No evidence	public	yes	No evidence	average,unknown	unknown
102	zgarfield	Case	Chukchee	In the year 1898, in the Eskimo village of UI'sak, an old man was shot at his own request. He was shot from behind. This is the only case of voluntary death known to me, where the death-stroke was dealt from behind.	No evidence	x	elderly	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	shooting,ask_someone_else	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	male	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence		documented_account
102	syme	Case	Chukchee	In the year 1898, in the Eskimo village of UI'sak, an old man was shot at his own request. He was shot from behind. This is the only case of voluntary death known to me, where the death-stroke was dealt from behind.	Evidence for	x	elderly	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	x	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	shooting	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	no	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	yes	No evidence	average,unknown	secondhand
103	zgarfield	Case	Chukchee	Dall describes part of these doings as an eye-witness. 'When we arrived, everything was ready. The women and children were cutting up the deer-meat, and the blood was on the head-stone. The victim, a blind but not decrepit man, was sitting by the head-stone,'....etc. Further on Dall mentions that the natives were much disturbed at the approach of the Americans, and, fearing interference, refused to go on until the vessels had left.	No evidence	x	na	x	na	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	na	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	na		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	na		x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		na
103	syme	Case	Chukchee	Dall describes part of these doings as an eye-witness. 'When we arrived, everything was ready. The women and children were cutting up the deer-meat, and the blood was on the head-stone. The victim, a blind but not decrepit man, was sitting by the head-stone,'....etc. Further on Dall mentions that the natives were much disturbed at the approach of the Americans, and, fearing interference, refused to go on until the vessels had left.	Evidence for	x	adult	The victim, a blind but not decrepit man, was sitting by the head-stone,'....etc. 	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	poisoning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion,unknown	x	No evidence	na	other	x	2	x	x	high rate of suicide	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	blindess	No evidence	public	yes	No evidence	average,unknown	documented_account
106	zgarfield	Case	Chukchee	I know some cases of boys and girls who were not yet twenty, and who killed themselves from spite, shame, or sorrow....	No evidence	x	young adult	I know some cases of boys and girls who were not yet twenty, and who killed themselves from spite, shame, or sorrow....	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	I know some cases of boys and girls who were not yet twenty, and who killed themselves from spite, shame, or sorrow....	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	both		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	spite, shame, or sorrow....	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence for		first person
106	syme	Case	Chukchee	I know some cases of boys and girls who were not yet twenty, and who killed themselves from spite, shame, or sorrow....	Evidence for	neutral	young adult	who killed themselves from spite, shame, or sorrow....	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	spite	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	spite, shame, or sorrow....	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	unknown	na	na	Evidence for	both	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	<20	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	high suicide rate	unknown	spite, shame, or sorrow....	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	average,unknown	unknown
108	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chukchee	"Other Chukchee of my acquaintance added the following explanation: 'Among our people, when a father is very angry with his lazy and bad son, he says, ""I do not want to see him any more. Let me go away."" Then he asks to be killed, and charges the very son who offended him with the execution of his request. ""Let him give me the mortal blow, let him suffer from the memory of it."""	No evidence	x	adult	"'Among our people, when a father is very angry with his lazy and bad son, he says, ""I do not want to see him any more. Let me go away."" Then he asks to be killed, and charges the very son who offended him with the execution of his request. """	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"'Among our people, when a father is very angry with his lazy and bad son, he says, ""I do not want to see him any more. Let me go away."" Then he asks to be killed, and charges the very son who offended him with the execution of his request. """	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na		ask_someone_else	"""Let him give me the mortal blow, let him suffer from the memory of it."""	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence		No evidence	child,ado_young_adult	offspring	male	na	No evidence	male	son	Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		yes	a father is very angry with his lazy and bad son,	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"""Let him give me the mortal blow, let him suffer from the memory of it."""	x	No evidence	public	unknown	Evidence against		secondhand
108	syme	Cultural model	Chukchee	"Other Chukchee of my acquaintance added the following explanation: 'Among our people, when a father is very angry with his lazy and bad son, he says, ""I do not want to see him any more. Let me go away."" Then he asks to be killed, and charges the very son who offended him with the execution of his request. ""Let him give me the mortal blow, let him suffer from the memory of it."""	Evidence for	neutral	adult	"Other Chukchee of my acquaintance added the following explanation: 'Among our people, when a father is very angry with his lazy and bad son, he says, ""I do not want to see him any more. Let me go away."" "	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Other Chukchee of my acquaintance added the following explanation: 'Among our people, when a father is very angry with his lazy and bad son, he says, ""I do not want to see him any more. Let me go away."" Then he asks to be killed, and charges the very son who offended him with the execution of his request. ""Let him give me the mortal blow, let him suffer from the memory of it."""	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	ask_someone_else	"""I do not want to see him any more. Let me go away."" Then he asks to be killed, and charges the very son who offended him with the execution of his request. ""Let him give me the mortal blow, let him suffer from the memory of it."""	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	ado_young_adult	son	male	na	No evidence	male	son	Evidence for		no evidence	threat,completion,unknown	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	high suicide rate	unknown	"Other Chukchee of my acquaintance added the following explanation: 'Among our people, when a father is very angry with his lazy and bad son, he says, ""I do not want to see him any more. Let me go away."" Then he asks to be killed, and charges the very son who offended him with the execution of his request. ""Let him give me the mortal blow, let him suffer from the memory of it."""	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence against	public	yes	No evidence	average	na
109	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chukchee	Deep sorrow on account of the loss of some near friend must also be mentioned as a reason for voluntary death.	No evidence	x	unknown	Deep sorrow on account of the loss of some near friend must also be mentioned as a reason for voluntary death.	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na		x		x	x		unknown	Deep sorrow	x	x	x	not stated	1	Deep sorrow on account of the loss of some near friend	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence		unknown
109	syme	Cultural model	Chukchee	Deep sorrow on account of the loss of some near friend must also be mentioned as a reason for voluntary death.	Evidence for	x	unknown	Deep sorrow on account of the loss of some near friend must also be mentioned as a reason for voluntary death	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	high suicide rate	unknown	sorrow	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	average,unknown	na
110	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chukchee	The most peculiar cause for voluntary death is the wrath, the lack of patience, of the Chukchee, which was mentioned by Lotteri as early as 1765....Unable to fight against suffering of any kind, physical or mental, the Chukchee prefers to see it destroyed, together with his own life.	Evidence for	x	unknown	"Unable to fight against suffering of any kind, physical or mental, the Chukchee prefers to see it destroyed, together with his own life.
"	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	na	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	Unable to fight against suffering of any kind, physical or mental, the Chukchee prefers to see it destroyed, together with his own life.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x		unknown	 wrath, the lack of patience	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		unknown
110	syme	Cultural model	Chukchee	The most peculiar cause for voluntary death is the wrath, the lack of patience, of the Chukchee, which was mentioned by Lotteri as early as 1765....Unable to fight against suffering of any kind, physical or mental, the Chukchee prefers to see it destroyed, together with his own life.	Evidence for	x	unknown	The most peculiar cause for voluntary death is the wrath, the lack of patience, of the Chukchee, which was mentioned by Lotteri as early as 1765....Unable to fight against suffering of any kind, physical or mental, the Chukchee prefers to see it destroyed, together with his own life.	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	ambivalently	etic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	Unable to fight against suffering of any kind, physical or mental, the Chukchee prefers to see it destroyed, together with his own life.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence for	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		unknown	completion	x	Evidence for	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	The most peculiar cause for voluntary death is the wrath, the lack of patience, of the Chukchee, which was mentioned by Lotteri as early as 1765....Unable to fight against suffering of any kind, physical or mental, the Chukchee prefers to see it destroyed, together with his own life.	high suicide rate		The most peculiar cause for voluntary death is the wrath, the lack of patience, of the Chukchee, which was mentioned by Lotteri as early as 1765....Unable to fight against suffering of any kind, physical or mental, the Chukchee prefers to see it destroyed, together with his own life.	The most peculiar cause for voluntary death is the wrath, the lack of patience, of the Chukchee, which was mentioned by Lotteri as early as 1765....Unable to fight against suffering of any kind, physical or mental, the Chukchee prefers to see it destroyed, together with his own life.	x	x	not stated	1	suffering mental	x	suffering physical	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	average,unknown	na
112	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chukchee	"Nevertheless, when the formula is pronounced aloud, no retreat is possible, because the spirits who have listened to the promise would severely rataliate at any failure to fulfil it. Thus it appears that voluntary death is at the same time considered as a preventive against death from the wiles of the ke'let [JMR: harmful spirits] (i.e., against natural death), and also as a sacrifice to the ke'let. This kind of contradiction is often met with in the ideas of the Chukchee....The two ideas refer to quite different aspects of voluntary death."" [p. 564] ""A man who is contemplating voluntary death thinks that he will free himself from death by the action of the ke'let [JMR: harmful spirits], but, when the time of execution comes, the voluntary death cannot be considered other than a bloody sacrifice to the same ke'let; and, though it is not considered a direct means of gaining their good-will, failure to fulfil the promise of the sacrifice brings, according to the ideas of the Chukchee, severe anger and retaliation on the part of the spirits."""	Evidence for	x	adult	Thus it appears that voluntary death is at the same time considered as a preventive against death from the wiles of the ke'let [JMR: harmful spirits] (i.e., against natural death), and also as a sacrifice to the ke'let. 	spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	ask_someone_else	A man who is contemplating voluntary death thinks that he will free himself from death by the action of the ke'let [JMR: harmful spirits]	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	A man who is contemplating voluntary death thinks that he will free himself from death by the action of the ke'let [JMR: harmful spirits]	A man who is contemplating voluntary death thinks that he will free himself from death by the action of the ke'let [JMR: harmful spirits]	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	public	yes	No evidence		firsthand
112	syme	Cultural model	Chukchee	"Nevertheless, when the formula is pronounced aloud, no retreat is possible, because the spirits who have listened to the promise would severely rataliate at any failure to fulfil it. Thus it appears that voluntary death is at the same time considered as a preventive against death from the wiles of the ke'let [JMR: harmful spirits] (i.e., against natural death), and also as a sacrifice to the ke'let. This kind of contradiction is often met with in the ideas of the Chukchee....The two ideas refer to quite different aspects of voluntary death."" [p. 564] ""A man who is contemplating voluntary death thinks that he will free himself from death by the action of the ke'let [JMR: harmful spirits], but, when the time of execution comes, the voluntary death cannot be considered other than a bloody sacrifice to the same ke'let; and, though it is not considered a direct means of gaining their good-will, failure to fulfil the promise of the sacrifice brings, according to the ideas of the Chukchee, severe anger and retaliation on the part of the spirits."""	Evidence for	x	unknown	Nevertheless, when the formula is pronounced aloud, no retreat is possible, because the spirits who have listened to the promise would severely rataliate at any failure to fulfil it. Thus it appears that voluntary death is at the same time considered as a preventive against death from the wiles of the ke'let [JMR: harmful spirits] (i.e., against natural death), and also as a sacrifice to the ke'let. 	spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly,ambivalently	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	Nevertheless, when the formula is pronounced aloud, no retreat is possible, because the spirits who have listened to the promise would severely rataliate at any failure to fulfil it. Thus it appears that voluntary death is at the same time considered as a preventive against death from the wiles of the ke'let [JMR: harmful spirits] (i.e., against natural death), and also as a sacrifice to the ke'let. 	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	high suicide rate	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"failure to fulfil the promise of the sacrifice brings, according to the ideas of the Chukchee, severe anger and retaliation on the part of the spirits."""	x	No evidence	na	yes	No evidence	average,unknown	na
113	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chukchee	The people avoid annoying him [who requests voluntary death]; even though he chides them, they must keep silent. Here it should be remembered that some cases of voluntary death originate in wrath....	No evidence	x	adult		unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	na	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	wrath	x	x	x	na	1		x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		na
113	syme	Cultural model	Chukchee	The people avoid annoying him [who requests voluntary death]; even though he chides them, they must keep silent. Here it should be remembered that some cases of voluntary death originate in wrath....	Evidence for	x	unknown	The people avoid annoying him [who requests voluntary death]; even though he chides them, they must keep silent. Here it should be remembered that some cases of voluntary death originate in wrath....	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	x	ambivalently,fearfully	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	ask_someone_else	x	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		no evidence	threat,attempt,completion	x	Evidence for	na	unknown	x	x	x	x	high suicide rate	unknown	wrath	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	The people avoid annoying him [who requests voluntary death]; even though he chides them, they must keep silent. Here it should be remembered that some cases of voluntary death originate in wrath....	x	No evidence	public	yes	No evidence	average,unknown	na
115	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chukchee	Another expression is used chiefly in folk-tales: 'Since I became for thee like they quarry'...., or, more directly, 'Like they quarry treat me'....These formulas are used by warriors when they are vanquished by an adversary and do not want to outlive their defeat. The meaning is, 'Give me a mortal stroke, since I have become for you as a game-animal.'	Evidence for	x	adult	These formulas are used by warriors when they are vanquished by an adversary and do not want to outlive their defeat.	military defeat	No evidence	na	No evidence	These formulas are used by warriors when they are vanquished by an adversary and do not want to outlive their defeat.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	ask_someone_else	they are vanquished by an adversary and do not want to outlive their defeat. 	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	war,witness violence,perpetrate violence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated		x	x	x	No evidence	public	yes	No evidence		na
115	syme	Cultural model	Chukchee	Another expression is used chiefly in folk-tales: 'Since I became for thee like they quarry'...., or, more directly, 'Like they quarry treat me'....These formulas are used by warriors when they are vanquished by an adversary and do not want to outlive their defeat. The meaning is, 'Give me a mortal stroke, since I have become for you as a game-animal.'	Evidence for	x	adult	Another expression is used chiefly in folk-tales: 'Since I became for thee like they quarry'...., or, more directly, 'Like they quarry treat me'....These formulas are used by warriors when they are vanquished by an adversary and do not want to outlive their defeat. The meaning is, 'Give me a mortal stroke, since I have become for you as a game-animal.'	military defeat	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Another expression is used chiefly in folk-tales: 'Since I became for thee like they quarry'...., or, more directly, 'Like they quarry treat me'....These formulas are used by warriors when they are vanquished by an adversary and do not want to outlive their defeat. The meaning is, 'Give me a mortal stroke, since I have become for you as a game-animal.'	approvingly,unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	ask_someone_else	and do not want to outlive their defeat. 	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	outgroup	na		Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		war,combat,witness violence,perpetrate violence	threat,attempt,completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	high suicide rate	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	public	yes	No evidence	average,low,unknown	na
116	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chukchee	Most of the marriages between relatives are concluded at a tender age, sometimes when the bridegroom and the bride are still infants. The marriage ritual is performed, and the children grow up, playing together. When a little older, they tend the herd together. Of course, the ties between them grow to be very strong, often stronger even than death: when one dies, the other also dies from grief, or commits suicide.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult	Of course, the ties between them grow to be very strong, often stronger even than death: when one dies, the other also dies from grief, or commits suicide.	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence		unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	spouse	na	na	No evidence	both		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	grief	Of course, the ties between them grow to be very strong, often stronger even than death: when one dies, the other also dies from grief, or commits suicide.	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	yes	No evidence		na
116	syme	Cultural model	Chukchee	Most of the marriages between relatives are concluded at a tender age, sometimes when the bridegroom and the bride are still infants. The marriage ritual is performed, and the children grow up, playing together. When a little older, they tend the herd together. Of course, the ties between them grow to be very strong, often stronger even than death: when one dies, the other also dies from grief, or commits suicide.	Evidence for	x	unknown	Most of the marriages between relatives are concluded at a tender age, sometimes when the bridegroom and the bride are still infants. The marriage ritual is performed, and the children grow up, playing together. When a little older, they tend the herd together. Of course, the ties between them grow to be very strong, often stronger even than death: when one dies, the other also dies from grief, or commits suicide.	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	both	spouse	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	high suicide rate	unknown	Most of the marriages between relatives are concluded at a tender age, sometimes when the bridegroom and the bride are still infants. The marriage ritual is performed, and the children grow up, playing together. When a little older, they tend the herd together. Of course, the ties between them grow to be very strong, often stronger even than death: when one dies, the other also dies from grief, or commits suicide.	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	average,unknown	na
117	zgarfield	Cultural model	Eastern Toraja	There have also been cases of suicide committed by girls who were forced to marry a man whom they did not want.	No evidence	x	young adult	"There have also been cases of suicide committed by girls who were forced to marry a man whom they did not want.
"	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"There have also been cases of suicide committed by girls who were forced to marry a man whom they did not want.
"	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	cases of suicide committed by girls who were forced to marry a man whom they did not want.	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	female	parents	Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	na	unknown	Evidence against		unknown
117	syme	Cultural model	Eastern Toraja	There have also been cases of suicide committed by girls who were forced to marry a man whom they did not want.	No evidence	x	young adult	There have also been cases of suicide committed by girls who were forced to marry a man whom they did not want.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	There have also been cases of suicide committed by girls who were forced to marry a man whom they did not want.	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	There have also been cases of suicide committed by girls who were forced to marry a man whom they did not want.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	unknown	na	No evidence	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	average,unknown	na
120	zgarfield	Cultural model	Eastern Toraja	Over against the honor that was shown the tadoelako stands the fact that he carried great responsibility. Whenever any of the troop fall in battle, the tadoelako is asked about this upon returning to the village, especially if there is no success whatsoever to report. The kin group of the slain is angry with him and reproach him for not having paid enough attention to the signs (the instructions of the gods); otherwise the casualties would have been avoided. The tadoelako defends himself by blaming the reason for the ill-luck on the failure to follow his commands. There are tadoelako who take such an accusation so much to heart that they run amok or commit suicide in some other way.	Evidence for	x	adult	Whenever any of the troop fall in battle...There are tadoelako who take such an accusation so much to heart that they run amok or commit suicide in some other way.	military defeat	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Whenever any of the troop fall in battle, the tadoelako is asked about this upon returning to the village, especially if there is no success whatsoever to report. The kin group of the slain is angry with him and reproach him for not having paid enough attention to the signs (the instructions of the gods); otherwise the casualties would have been avoided. 	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	multiple social doma	both	na	Evidence for	male		No evidence	Evidence for	war,witness violence,perpetrate violence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		na
120	syme	Cultural model	Eastern Toraja	Over against the honor that was shown the tadoelako stands the fact that he carried great responsibility. Whenever any of the troop fall in battle, the tadoelako is asked about this upon returning to the village, especially if there is no success whatsoever to report. The kin group of the slain is angry with him and reproach him for not having paid enough attention to the signs (the instructions of the gods); otherwise the casualties would have been avoided. The tadoelako defends himself by blaming the reason for the ill-luck on the failure to follow his commands. There are tadoelako who take such an accusation so much to heart that they run amok or commit suicide in some other way.	Evidence for	x	adult	Over against the honor that was shown the tadoelako stands the fact that he carried great responsibility. Whenever any of the troop fall in battle, the tadoelako is asked about this upon returning to the village, especially if there is no success whatsoever to report. The kin group of the slain is angry with him and reproach him for not having paid enough attention to the signs (the instructions of the gods); otherwise the casualties would have been avoided. The tadoelako defends himself by blaming the reason for the ill-luck on the failure to follow his commands. There are tadoelako who take such an accusation so much to heart that they run amok or commit suicide in some other way.	accus_commit wrongdo,military defeat,loss_social_position	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Over against the honor that was shown the tadoelako stands the fact that he carried great responsibility. Whenever any of the troop fall in battle, the tadoelako is asked about this upon returning to the village, especially if there is no success whatsoever to report. The kin group of the slain is angry with him and reproach him for not having paid enough attention to the signs (the instructions of the gods); otherwise the casualties would have been avoided. The tadoelako defends himself by blaming the reason for the ill-luck on the failure to follow his commands. There are tadoelako who take such an accusation so much to heart that they run amok or commit suicide in some other way.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	na	outgroup	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		war,combat,witness violence,perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	There are tadoelako who take such an accusation so much to heart that they run amok or commit suicide in some other way.	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence for	low	na
121	zgarfield	Case	Garo	Garos describe suicide as if it were a punishable offense. One of the loskors told me of a woman who had been very sick and in great pain, and who had finally cut her own throat. (Pain, disease, and crippling old age were the usual reasons given for suicide.) She did not die for a week and was taken to the hospital in Tura, where the loskor was able to question her. She denied that anyone else had done this, and so, as Rate explained [p. 256] it, he was unable to press the case because there was no complainant. Characteristically, he felt that even suicide required a complainant, in accordance with the Garo idea that the only wrong action is one that harms another, and that the injured person has the right to press for damages.	Evidence for	x	adult	One of the loskors told me of a woman who had been very sick and in great pain, and who had finally cut her own throat.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	bleed_to_death	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	severe	other chronic pain	x	3	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	had been very sick and in great pain	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		na
121	syme	Case	Garo	Garos describe suicide as if it were a punishable offense. One of the loskors told me of a woman who had been very sick and in great pain, and who had finally cut her own throat. (Pain, disease, and crippling old age were the usual reasons given for suicide.) She did not die for a week and was taken to the hospital in Tura, where the loskor was able to question her. She denied that anyone else had done this, and so, as Rate explained [p. 256] it, he was unable to press the case because there was no complainant. Characteristically, he felt that even suicide required a complainant, in accordance with the Garo idea that the only wrong action is one that harms another, and that the injured person has the right to press for damages.	Evidence for	x	adult,elderly,unknown	Garos describe suicide as if it were a punishable offense. One of the loskors told me of a woman who had been very sick and in great pain, and who had finally cut her own throat. (Pain, disease, and crippling old age were the usual reasons given for suicide.) 	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	na	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	bleed_to_death	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	severe,chronic	unknown	x	4	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	She did not die for a week and was taken to the hospital in Tura, where the loskor was able to question her. She denied that anyone else had done this, and so, as Rate explained [p. 256] it, he was unable to press the case because there was no complainant. Characteristically, he felt that even suicide required a complainant, in accordance with the Garo idea that the only wrong action is one that harms another, and that the injured person has the right to press for damages.	Garos describe suicide as if it were a punishable offense. One of the loskors told me of a woman who had been very sick and in great pain, and who had finally cut her own throat. 	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	secondhand
122	zgarfield	Cultural model	Garo	(Pain, disease, and crippling old age were the usual reasons given for suicide.)	Evidence for	x	adult	Pain, disease, and crippling old age were the usual reasons given for suicide	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	na		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	severe,chronic	other chronic pain	x		x	x		na	x	Pain, disease, and crippling old age were the usual reasons given for suicide	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	Pain, disease, and crippling old age 	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		na
122	syme	Cultural model	Garo	(Pain, disease, and crippling old age were the usual reasons given for suicide.)	Evidence for	x	adult,elderly	(Pain, disease, and crippling old age were the usual reasons given for suicide.)	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	severe,chronic	unknown	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	(Pain, disease, and crippling old age were the usual reasons given for suicide.)	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
123	zgarfield	Case	Garo	In the few stray instances recorded by us, both men and women were involved, and the cause in all were frustration in love.	No evidence	x	adult	"the cause in all were frustration in love.
"	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	"the cause in all were frustration in love.
"	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na		both		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	frustration	x	x	x	not stated	2	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		first person
123	syme	Case	Garo	In the few stray instances recorded by us, both men and women were involved, and the cause in all were frustration in love.	No evidence	x	unknown	In the few stray instances recorded by us, both men and women were involved, and the cause in all were frustration in love.	rejection,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	both	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	frustration in love.	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
124	zgarfield	Case	Garo	We came across the case of a woman who attempted to commit suicide, but was saved due to timely intervention of fellow villagers. Afterwards she could continue normal life in the same village without becoming an object of ridicule or criticism.	No evidence	x	adult	x		No evidence	na	No evidence	x	ambivalently,unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	1	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence		hearsay
124	syme	Case	Garo	We came across the case of a woman who attempted to commit suicide, but was saved due to timely intervention of fellow villagers. Afterwards she could continue normal life in the same village without becoming an object of ridicule or criticism.	No evidence	x	adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	pityingly,unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	Afterwards she could continue normal life in the same village without becoming an object of ridicule or criticism.	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
125	zgarfield	Cultural model	Garo	In Garo society suicide is taken in the most matter-of-fact way. No dreadful fear is expressed towards suicide, nor is there any positive social sanction for it.	No evidence	x	na	x	na	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	ambivalently	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	na		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		na
125	syme	Cultural model	Garo	In Garo society suicide is taken in the most matter-of-fact way. No dreadful fear is expressed towards suicide, nor is there any positive social sanction for it.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	na	No evidence			x	ambivalently	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	both	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	In Garo society suicide is taken in the most matter-of-fact way. No dreadful fear is expressed towards suicide, nor is there any positive social sanction for it.	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
126	zgarfield	Case	Iban	Son of old woman allowed house to catch fire, subjecting family to slavery. So mother killed family.	No evidence	x	adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	kin	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	?	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		unknown
126	syme	Case	Iban	Son of old woman allowed house to catch fire, subjecting family to slavery. So mother killed family.	No evidence	x	adult	Son of old woman allowed house to catch fire, subjecting family to slavery. So mother killed family.	enslavement_capture,accus_commit wrongdo,loss social position,resource loss		na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	Son of old woman allowed house to catch fire, subjecting family to slavery. So mother killed family.	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	So mother killed family.	4	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	low	unknown
127	zgarfield	Cultural model	Iban	Suicide is of frequent occurrence among the females, but is rarely resorted to by the males. The women are so keenly sensitive to disgrace, that they will not part with their virtue for fear of the consequences. They prefer death to a life of shame, and many girls have committed suicide rather than face the displeasure of their parents and the jibes of their sex.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult	They prefer death to a life of shame, and many girls have committed suicide rather than face the displeasure of their parents and the jibes of their sex.	interpersonal confli,group conflict	No evidence	na	Evidence for	They prefer death to a life of shame, and many girls have committed suicide rather than face the displeasure of their parents and the jibes of their sex.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	"They prefer death to a life of shame, and many girls have committed suicide rather than face the displeasure of their parents and the jibes of their sex.
"	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	multiple social doma	both	na	No evidence	more often women		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	disgrace, shame	"They prefer death to a life of shame, and many girls have committed suicide rather than face the displeasure of their parents and the jibes of their sex.
"	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for		unknown
127	syme	Cultural model	Iban	Suicide is of frequent occurrence among the females, but is rarely resorted to by the males. The women are so keenly sensitive to disgrace, that they will not part with their virtue for fear of the consequences. They prefer death to a life of shame, and many girls have committed suicide rather than face the displeasure of their parents and the jibes of their sex.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult	The women are so keenly sensitive to disgrace, that they will not part with their virtue for fear of the consequences. They prefer death to a life of shame, and many girls have committed suicide rather than face the displeasure of their parents and the jibes of their sex.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	The women are so keenly sensitive to disgrace, that they will not part with their virtue for fear of the consequences. They prefer death to a life of shame, and many girls have committed suicide rather than face the displeasure of their parents and the jibes of their sex.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	parents,peers	male	na	Evidence for	more often women	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	shame,disgrace	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence for	low	unknown
129	zgarfield	Cultural model	Iban	Women have also been known within recent times to commit suicide to avoid the shame and disgrace of being sold into slavery.	Evidence for	x	adult	Women have also been known within recent times to commit suicide to avoid the shame and disgrace of being sold into slavery	enslavement_capture	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Women have also been known within recent times to commit suicide to avoid the shame and disgrace of being sold into slavery	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	"Women have also been known within recent times to commit suicide to avoid the shame and disgrace of being sold into slavery.
"	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	other	completion	x	No evidence	na		x		x	x		na	shame and disgrace	"Women have also been known within recent times to commit suicide to avoid the shame and disgrace of being sold into slavery.
"	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for		unknown
129	syme	Cultural model	Iban	Women have also been known within recent times to commit suicide to avoid the shame and disgrace of being sold into slavery.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,unknown	Women have also been known within recent times to commit suicide to avoid the shame and disgrace of being sold into slavery.	enslavement_capture,loss social position	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Women have also been known within recent times to commit suicide to avoid the shame and disgrace of being sold into slavery.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	Women have also been known within recent times to commit suicide to avoid the shame and disgrace of being sold into slavery.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	unknown	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	shame and disgrace 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	low,unknown	na
130	zgarfield	Cultural model	Iban	There is a hill in Sabaian (the next world), says tradition, covered with tuba, and suicides there enjoy undisturbed repose beneath the shade of the poisonous shrub. Despairing lovers, whose union upon earth was forbidden by harsh and unfeeling parents, are here reunited.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult	Despairing lovers, whose union upon earth was forbidden by harsh and unfeeling parents, are here reunited.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Despairing lovers, whose union upon earth was forbidden by harsh and unfeeling parents, are here reunited.		emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	poisoning,not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	both		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	Despairing	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	Evidence for	na	unknown	Evidence for		na
130	syme	Cultural model	Iban	There is a hill in Sabaian (the next world), says tradition, covered with tuba, and suicides there enjoy undisturbed repose beneath the shade of the poisonous shrub. Despairing lovers, whose union upon earth was forbidden by harsh and unfeeling parents, are here reunited.	No evidence	positive	young adult	There is a hill in Sabaian (the next world), says tradition, covered with tuba, and suicides there enjoy undisturbed repose beneath the shade of the poisonous shrub. Despairing lovers, whose union upon earth was forbidden by harsh and unfeeling parents, are here reunited.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	There is a hill in Sabaian (the next world), says tradition, covered with tuba, and suicides there enjoy undisturbed repose beneath the shade of the poisonous shrub. Despairing lovers, whose union upon earth was forbidden by harsh and unfeeling parents, are here reunited.	unknown	emic	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	poisoning	There is a hill in Sabaian (the next world), says tradition, covered with tuba, and suicides there enjoy undisturbed repose beneath the shade of the poisonous shrub. Despairing lovers, whose union upon earth was forbidden by harsh and unfeeling parents, are here reunited.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	both	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	no	despair	x	x	There is a hill in Sabaian (the next world), says tradition, covered with tuba, and suicides there enjoy undisturbed repose beneath the shade of the poisonous shrub. Despairing lovers, whose union upon earth was forbidden by harsh and unfeeling parents, are here reunited.	not stated	1,2	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
131	zgarfield	Case	Ifugao	"Marriage is a mere alliance, and as little dependable as an alliance between nations. If a controversy between near kinsmen from their respective families arises, the spouses may try for peace, but, if the affair becomes bitter, each will adhere to his own family, and the marriage will dissolve. [p. 100] If distant kinsmen be at controversy, the spouses may temporize and evade a stand, and bring the matrimonial bark safely through. But if they want an excuse for a divorce, such an occasion offers it. While the marriage lasts, each spouse is considered a member of the family of the other, functions as such, and is often able to command, in time of need, the aid of the other's brothers, possibly sisters' husbands, and even cousins. This is especially probable if the marriage has been blessed with children. Nothing else so strengthens the alliance. An instance will show. In the next house but one to mine there in the village, lived a youth, Soft Stone. Although of poor stock and from a remote region, he was married to a girl of rather uppish family. He had been able to hawk above his station because of the fact that at the time of his marriage he was working as a stonecutter (having learned that trade through working on the school building) and earning forty cents a day. But the demand for his trade had ceased, and he would work at nothing else. This couple had a baby boy. Next door to them lived Persimmon, a soldier in the Philippine Constabulary, and his wife, Cicada (or, as we might translate, Seventeen-Year-Locust). The two were incompatible. I remember the names because of their suggestion of the dominant traits of the individuals and of the [p. 101] sources of the domestic friction. A situation already bad was complicated further by the fact that Cicada's mother, from whom the girl inherited her signal characteristic, was a third member of the household. One day Persimmon suggested a divorce. For once, Cicada agreed with him--too quickly, indeed. Then she lapsed into silence and thought--both unusual. Between her vocal cords and her mind there seems to have existed the same relation as between the whistle and the engine of a traditional Mississippi tug-boat: when either worked it required all the steam, and the other had to quit. Viewing her thus silent, and contemplating her curves, almost none of which were concealed by clothing, Persimmon found her as irresistibly attractive to the eye as she was usually irritating to the ear. He repented of his suggestion--that was his first mistake. Cicada was thinking about alimony. (It has often been observed that primitive folk take most heartily to the doubtful importations civilization brings.) A new company commander had been allowing alimony to divorcees of soldiers. Cicada went straightway to the C.O., who, over Persimmon's protest that he still wanted her, granted a divorce with alimony until such time as she should again become a bride--which, she declared, would be never! Persimmon took her at her word, and the prospect [p. 102] appalled him. A second mistake, perhaps, although he might be presumed to know better than anybody else of what her malice was capable. And he could hardly be optimistic, since she was his fourth wife to turn out disappointingly. Persimmon's comrades in arms noted a change in him immediately after the next pay day and later testified they had had an inkling of tragic possibilities. He would whet his mess kit knife for hours at a time. When they asked him why he was so preoccupied thus, he answered, ""Oh, some day we'll kill a fat hog for the company, and I'll be the one to cut it up."" He presented the characteristic symptoms of a Malay generating that form of brainstorm that has enriched our language with the word ""amok."" One night Persimmon went to his former home and called on Cicada and her mother. He sat down in the door-way and talked for a few moments with disarming friendliness. Then he called to Soft Stone in the next house, inviting him over. ""Soft Stone,"" he said, ""when are you going to pay me that three pesos and a half you borrowed for a month--more than a year ago?"" ""Oh!"" said Soft Stone, ""I know that I have been a little slow, but after next harvest I will go to the lowlands to work for the government on bridges, and then I'll repay you."" [p. 103] Quicker than a snake strikes, Persimmon stabbed the youth deeply in the abdomen. Before Cicada could jump out of the back door, only six feet away, he had caught her and stabbed her twice through the left breast. He turned to murder his mother-in-law, but she had escaped. Possibly he had been looking forward too fondly to that dnouement and could not brook his disappointment. At any rate, he did a most un-Ifugao-like thing: he attempted suicide, stabbing himself deep into the liver several times. Himself he could not kill--though he made an honest effort--and was the only one of the three to survive. It was the only instance of suicidal attempt I heard of during my years in Ifugaoland. Thus Persimmon. He did not suspect Soft Stone of alienating his wife's affections--it was simply that he loved life less than he hated the parasitism of women. And, while punishing that, he thought well to punish also the parasitism of ""I'll-pay-you-pretty-soon."" Soft Stone's wife had been christianized. She called the missionary, who, while I was bandaging the wounds inflicted on her husband, baptized him and made him a christian--a thing about which poor Soft Stone had no say, since he was unconscious during the whole process. Indeed the padre finished just in time. Soft Stone was buried in holy ground next day. [p. 104] Cicada died two days later. Her body was set under the eaves of her house, a knife in one hand, a spear in the other. Just as her mother and female kin had begun to shout incitations to her soul not to let death interrupt her harrying of Persimmon, there arrived a delegation from Palao, six miles away. The foremost member, a woman, went directly to the grief-stricken mother and began cuffing her, saying, ""Curse you, Sister-in-law! This is what comes of your meddling. You egged them to it!"" I asked a bystander why the woman from Palao acted so. ""Because she is Cicada's father,"" was the answer. Further questioning elicited the fact that she was the eldest sister of Cicada's deceased father and was the ""center"" of his family group. However much she blamed the sister-in-law for the tragedy, she soon allied herself with her in the incitations to Cicada's soul. Ifugaos reckon relationship by generations. All terms except those for ""father"" and ""mother"" (and a few that are rarely used) are common in gender. An individual is sibling (brother or sister) to all his kin of the same generation, child (son or daughter) of all his kin of the preceding generation, grandchild of all generations before that. He is father or mother to the generation succeeding his own and grandparent to all that follow. How little important is sex even in the distinction made as to parents is shown by the [p 105] fact that the father's sisters are usually called ""mothers,"" but at his death, the eldest sibling, whether male or female, steps into his place and becomes known as the ""father."" If it be desired to be specific in the case of a term common in regard to sex, the words ""male"" or ""female"" are appended, as ""male grandparent."" And now comes the illustrativeness for which I have inserted this bit of the history of my home village. Although we have seen Soft Stone given respectable Christian burial, we are not through with him. Soft Stone's wife had also a female father, who had taken her to rear after the death of her parents--shall we say, ""of the first instance?"" This female father was the wife of the American-appointed ""president"" of Kurug, a region a good half-day's hike distant. She and her husband were a devoted couple and always did what in her opinion was right. When they heard of the stabbing of her son-in-law, they came immediately, only to find him buried already and in an outlandish manner. Great was the wrath of the female father and consequently of her husband, who, I suppose, was a father of the third instance. ""Soft Stone,"" they said, ""is not of our blood, and it would not matter to us if they used him for hog feed except that he has a child by our daughter. That quite changes [p. 106] the matter. He is going to be buried according to good custom and with all the correct vengeance ceremonies, that his son, a member of our family, be not disgraced forever and we shamed along with him."" They had a great controversy with Rome over the question, but Rome was not strong with our local Csar. They went to the Holy ground, dug up Soft Stone's body, and gave it a new funeral, conducted jointly with Cicada's and according to good custom. For this propriety, the soul of Soft Stone, not knowing that it became a christian, may thank the baby that united him to a determined female father-in-law!"	No evidence	x	adult	"Soft Stone,"" he said, ""when are you going to pay me that three pesos and a half you borrowed for a month--more than a year ago?"" ""Oh!"" said Soft Stone, ""I know that I have been a little slow, but after next harvest I will go to the lowlands to work for the government on bridges, and then I'll repay you."" [p. 103] Quicker than a snake strikes, Persimmon stabbed the youth deeply in the abdomen. Before Cicada could jump out of the back door, only six feet away, he had caught her and stabbed her twice through the left breast. He turned to murder his mother-in-law, but she had escaped. Possibly he had been looking forward too fondly to that dnouement and could not brook his disappointment. At any rate, he did a most un-Ifugao-like thing: he attempted suicide, stabbing himself deep into the liver several times."	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Soft Stone,"" he said, ""when are you going to pay me that three pesos and a half you borrowed for a month--more than a year ago?"" ""Oh!"" said Soft Stone, ""I know that I have been a little slow, but after next harvest I will go to the lowlands to work for the government on bridges, and then I'll repay you."" [p. 103] Quicker than a snake strikes, Persimmon stabbed the youth deeply in the abdomen. Before Cicada could jump out of the back door, only six feet away, he had caught her and stabbed her twice through the left breast. He turned to murder his mother-in-law, but she had escaped. Possibly he had been looking forward too fondly to that dnouement and could not brook his disappointment. At any rate, he did a most un-Ifugao-like thing: he attempted suicide, stabbing himself deep into the liver several times."	na	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	stabbing	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	multiple social doma	both	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		yes	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	Evidence for		first person
131	syme	Case	Ifugao	"Marriage is a mere alliance, and as little dependable as an alliance between nations. If a controversy between near kinsmen from their respective families arises, the spouses may try for peace, but, if the affair becomes bitter, each will adhere to his own family, and the marriage will dissolve. [p. 100] If distant kinsmen be at controversy, the spouses may temporize and evade a stand, and bring the matrimonial bark safely through. But if they want an excuse for a divorce, such an occasion offers it. While the marriage lasts, each spouse is considered a member of the family of the other, functions as such, and is often able to command, in time of need, the aid of the other's brothers, possibly sisters' husbands, and even cousins. This is especially probable if the marriage has been blessed with children. Nothing else so strengthens the alliance. An instance will show. In the next house but one to mine there in the village, lived a youth, Soft Stone. Although of poor stock and from a remote region, he was married to a girl of rather uppish family. He had been able to hawk above his station because of the fact that at the time of his marriage he was working as a stonecutter (having learned that trade through working on the school building) and earning forty cents a day. But the demand for his trade had ceased, and he would work at nothing else. This couple had a baby boy. Next door to them lived Persimmon, a soldier in the Philippine Constabulary, and his wife, Cicada (or, as we might translate, Seventeen-Year-Locust). The two were incompatible. I remember the names because of their suggestion of the dominant traits of the individuals and of the [p. 101] sources of the domestic friction. A situation already bad was complicated further by the fact that Cicada's mother, from whom the girl inherited her signal characteristic, was a third member of the household. One day Persimmon suggested a divorce. For once, Cicada agreed with him--too quickly, indeed. Then she lapsed into silence and thought--both unusual. Between her vocal cords and her mind there seems to have existed the same relation as between the whistle and the engine of a traditional Mississippi tug-boat: when either worked it required all the steam, and the other had to quit. Viewing her thus silent, and contemplating her curves, almost none of which were concealed by clothing, Persimmon found her as irresistibly attractive to the eye as she was usually irritating to the ear. He repented of his suggestion--that was his first mistake. Cicada was thinking about alimony. (It has often been observed that primitive folk take most heartily to the doubtful importations civilization brings.) A new company commander had been allowing alimony to divorcees of soldiers. Cicada went straightway to the C.O., who, over Persimmon's protest that he still wanted her, granted a divorce with alimony until such time as she should again become a bride--which, she declared, would be never! Persimmon took her at her word, and the prospect [p. 102] appalled him. A second mistake, perhaps, although he might be presumed to know better than anybody else of what her malice was capable. And he could hardly be optimistic, since she was his fourth wife to turn out disappointingly. Persimmon's comrades in arms noted a change in him immediately after the next pay day and later testified they had had an inkling of tragic possibilities. He would whet his mess kit knife for hours at a time. When they asked him why he was so preoccupied thus, he answered, ""Oh, some day we'll kill a fat hog for the company, and I'll be the one to cut it up."" He presented the characteristic symptoms of a Malay generating that form of brainstorm that has enriched our language with the word ""amok."" One night Persimmon went to his former home and called on Cicada and her mother. He sat down in the door-way and talked for a few moments with disarming friendliness. Then he called to Soft Stone in the next house, inviting him over. ""Soft Stone,"" he said, ""when are you going to pay me that three pesos and a half you borrowed for a month--more than a year ago?"" ""Oh!"" said Soft Stone, ""I know that I have been a little slow, but after next harvest I will go to the lowlands to work for the government on bridges, and then I'll repay you."" [p. 103] Quicker than a snake strikes, Persimmon stabbed the youth deeply in the abdomen. Before Cicada could jump out of the back door, only six feet away, he had caught her and stabbed her twice through the left breast. He turned to murder his mother-in-law, but she had escaped. Possibly he had been looking forward too fondly to that dnouement and could not brook his disappointment. At any rate, he did a most un-Ifugao-like thing: he attempted suicide, stabbing himself deep into the liver several times. Himself he could not kill--though he made an honest effort--and was the only one of the three to survive. It was the only instance of suicidal attempt I heard of during my years in Ifugaoland. Thus Persimmon. He did not suspect Soft Stone of alienating his wife's affections--it was simply that he loved life less than he hated the parasitism of women. And, while punishing that, he thought well to punish also the parasitism of ""I'll-pay-you-pretty-soon."" Soft Stone's wife had been christianized. She called the missionary, who, while I was bandaging the wounds inflicted on her husband, baptized him and made him a christian--a thing about which poor Soft Stone had no say, since he was unconscious during the whole process. Indeed the padre finished just in time. Soft Stone was buried in holy ground next day. [p. 104] Cicada died two days later. Her body was set under the eaves of her house, a knife in one hand, a spear in the other. Just as her mother and female kin had begun to shout incitations to her soul not to let death interrupt her harrying of Persimmon, there arrived a delegation from Palao, six miles away. The foremost member, a woman, went directly to the grief-stricken mother and began cuffing her, saying, ""Curse you, Sister-in-law! This is what comes of your meddling. You egged them to it!"" I asked a bystander why the woman from Palao acted so. ""Because she is Cicada's father,"" was the answer. Further questioning elicited the fact that she was the eldest sister of Cicada's deceased father and was the ""center"" of his family group. However much she blamed the sister-in-law for the tragedy, she soon allied herself with her in the incitations to Cicada's soul. Ifugaos reckon relationship by generations. All terms except those for ""father"" and ""mother"" (and a few that are rarely used) are common in gender. An individual is sibling (brother or sister) to all his kin of the same generation, child (son or daughter) of all his kin of the preceding generation, grandchild of all generations before that. He is father or mother to the generation succeeding his own and grandparent to all that follow. How little important is sex even in the distinction made as to parents is shown by the [p 105] fact that the father's sisters are usually called ""mothers,"" but at his death, the eldest sibling, whether male or female, steps into his place and becomes known as the ""father."" If it be desired to be specific in the case of a term common in regard to sex, the words ""male"" or ""female"" are appended, as ""male grandparent."" And now comes the illustrativeness for which I have inserted this bit of the history of my home village. Although we have seen Soft Stone given respectable Christian burial, we are not through with him. Soft Stone's wife had also a female father, who had taken her to rear after the death of her parents--shall we say, ""of the first instance?"" This female father was the wife of the American-appointed ""president"" of Kurug, a region a good half-day's hike distant. She and her husband were a devoted couple and always did what in her opinion was right. When they heard of the stabbing of her son-in-law, they came immediately, only to find him buried already and in an outlandish manner. Great was the wrath of the female father and consequently of her husband, who, I suppose, was a father of the third instance. ""Soft Stone,"" they said, ""is not of our blood, and it would not matter to us if they used him for hog feed except that he has a child by our daughter. That quite changes [p. 106] the matter. He is going to be buried according to good custom and with all the correct vengeance ceremonies, that his son, a member of our family, be not disgraced forever and we shamed along with him."" They had a great controversy with Rome over the question, but Rome was not strong with our local Csar. They went to the Holy ground, dug up Soft Stone's body, and gave it a new funeral, conducted jointly with Cicada's and according to good custom. For this propriety, the soul of Soft Stone, not knowing that it became a christian, may thank the baby that united him to a determined female father-in-law!"	Evidence for	x	adult	"But the demand for his trade had ceased, and he would work at nothing else. This couple had a baby boy. Next door to them lived Persimmon, a soldier in the Philippine Constabulary, and his wife, Cicada (or, as we might translate, Seventeen-Year-Locust). The two were incompatible. I remember the names because of their suggestion of the dominant traits of the individuals and of the [p. 101] sources of the domestic friction. A situation already bad was complicated further by the fact that Cicada's mother, from whom the girl inherited her signal characteristic, was a third member of the household. One day Persimmon suggested a divorce. For once, Cicada agreed with him--too quickly, indeed. Then she lapsed into silence and thought--both unusual. Between her vocal cords and her mind there seems to have existed the same relation as between the whistle and the engine of a traditional Mississippi tug-boat: when either worked it required all the steam, and the other had to quit. Viewing her thus silent, and contemplating her curves, almost none of which were concealed by clothing, Persimmon found her as irresistibly attractive to the eye as she was usually irritating to the ear. He repented of his suggestion--that was his first mistake. Cicada was thinking about alimony. (It has often been observed that primitive folk take most heartily to the doubtful importations civilization brings.) A new company commander had been allowing alimony to divorcees of soldiers. Cicada went straightway to the C.O., who, over Persimmon's protest that he still wanted her, granted a divorce with alimony until such time as she should again become a bride--which, she declared, would be never! Persimmon took her at her word, and the prospect [p. 102] appalled him. A second mistake, perhaps, although he might be presumed to know better than anybody else of what her malice was capable. And he could hardly be optimistic, since she was his fourth wife to turn out disappointingly. Persimmon's comrades in arms noted a change in him immediately after the next pay day and later testified they had had an inkling of tragic possibilities. He would whet his mess kit knife for hours at a time. When they asked him why he was so preoccupied thus, he answered, ""Oh, some day we'll kill a fat hog for the company, and I'll be the one to cut it up."" He presented the characteristic symptoms of a Malay generating that form of brainstorm that has enriched our language with the word ""amok."" One night Persimmon went to his former home and called on Cicada and her mother. He sat down in the door-way and talked for a few moments with disarming friendliness. Then he called to Soft Stone in the next house, inviting him over. ""Soft Stone,"" he said, ""when are you going to pay me that three pesos and a half you borrowed for a month--more than a year ago?"" ""Oh!"" said Soft Stone, ""I know that I have been a little slow, but after next harvest I will go to the lowlands to work for the government on bridges, and then I'll repay you."" [p. 103] Quicker than a snake strikes, Persimmon stabbed the youth deeply in the abdomen. Before Cicada could jump out of the back door, only six feet away, he had caught her and stabbed her twice through the left breast. He turned to murder his mother-in-law, but she had escaped. Possibly he had been looking forward too fondly to that dnouement and could not brook his disappointment. At any rate, he did a most un-Ifugao-like thing: he attempted suicide, stabbing himself deep into the liver several times. Himself he could not kill--though he made an honest effort--and was the only one of the three to survive. It was the only instance of suicidal attempt I heard of during my years in Ifugaoland. Thus Persimmon. He did not suspect Soft Stone of alienating his wife's affections--it was simply that he loved life less than he hated the parasitism of women. And, while punishing that, he thought well to punish also the parasitism of ""I'll-pay-you-pretty-soon."" Soft Stone's wife had been christianized. She called the missionary, who, while I was bandaging the wounds inflicted on her husband, baptized him and made him a christian--a thing about which poor Soft Stone had no say, since he was unconscious during the whole process"	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo,resource loss	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"But the demand for his trade had ceased, and he would work at nothing else. This couple had a baby boy. Next door to them lived Persimmon, a soldier in the Philippine Constabulary, and his wife, Cicada (or, as we might translate, Seventeen-Year-Locust). The two were incompatible. I remember the names because of their suggestion of the dominant traits of the individuals and of the [p. 101] sources of the domestic friction. A situation already bad was complicated further by the fact that Cicada's mother, from whom the girl inherited her signal characteristic, was a third member of the household. One day Persimmon suggested a divorce. For once, Cicada agreed with him--too quickly, indeed. Then she lapsed into silence and thought--both unusual. Between her vocal cords and her mind there seems to have existed the same relation as between the whistle and the engine of a traditional Mississippi tug-boat: when either worked it required all the steam, and the other had to quit. Viewing her thus silent, and contemplating her curves, almost none of which were concealed by clothing, Persimmon found her as irresistibly attractive to the eye as she was usually irritating to the ear. He repented of his suggestion--that was his first mistake. Cicada was thinking about alimony. (It has often been observed that primitive folk take most heartily to the doubtful importations civilization brings.) A new company commander had been allowing alimony to divorcees of soldiers. Cicada went straightway to the C.O., who, over Persimmon's protest that he still wanted her, granted a divorce with alimony until such time as she should again become a bride--which, she declared, would be never! Persimmon took her at her word, and the prospect [p. 102] appalled him. A second mistake, perhaps, although he might be presumed to know better than anybody else of what her malice was capable. And he could hardly be optimistic, since she was his fourth wife to turn out disappointingly. Persimmon's comrades in arms noted a change in him immediately after the next pay day and later testified they had had an inkling of tragic possibilities. He would whet his mess kit knife for hours at a time. When they asked him why he was so preoccupied thus, he answered, ""Oh, some day we'll kill a fat hog for the company, and I'll be the one to cut it up."" He presented the characteristic symptoms of a Malay generating that form of brainstorm that has enriched our language with the word ""amok."" One night Persimmon went to his former home and called on Cicada and her mother. He sat down in the door-way and talked for a few moments with disarming friendliness. Then he called to Soft Stone in the next house, inviting him over. ""Soft Stone,"" he said, ""when are you going to pay me that three pesos and a half you borrowed for a month--more than a year ago?"" ""Oh!"" said Soft Stone, ""I know that I have been a little slow, but after next harvest I will go to the lowlands to work for the government on bridges, and then I'll repay you."" [p. 103] Quicker than a snake strikes, Persimmon stabbed the youth deeply in the abdomen. Before Cicada could jump out of the back door, only six feet away, he had caught her and stabbed her twice through the left breast. He turned to murder his mother-in-law, but she had escaped. Possibly he had been looking forward too fondly to that dnouement and could not brook his disappointment. At any rate, he did a most un-Ifugao-like thing: he attempted suicide, stabbing himself deep into the liver several times. Himself he could not kill--though he made an honest effort--and was the only one of the three to survive. It was the only instance of suicidal attempt I heard of during my years in Ifugaoland. Thus Persimmon. He did not suspect Soft Stone of alienating his wife's affections--it was simply that he loved life less than he hated the parasitism of women. And, while punishing that, he thought well to punish also the parasitism of ""I'll-pay-you-pretty-soon."" Soft Stone's wife had been christianized. She called the missionary, who, while I was bandaging the wounds inflicted on her husband, baptized him and made him a christian--a thing about which poor Soft Stone had no say, since he was unconscious during the whole process"	unknown	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	na	na	other	Evidence against	stabbing	"He presented the characteristic symptoms of a Malay generating that form of brainstorm that has enriched our language with the word ""amok."" One night Persimmon went to his former home and called on Cicada and her mother. He sat down in the door-way and talked for a few moments with disarming friendliness. Then he called to Soft Stone in the next house, inviting him over. ""Soft Stone,"" he said, ""when are you going to pay me that three pesos and a half you borrowed for a month--more than a year ago?"" ""Oh!"" said Soft Stone, ""I know that I have been a little slow, but after next harvest I will go to the lowlands to work for the government on bridges, and then I'll repay you."" [p. 103] Quicker than a snake strikes, Persimmon stabbed the youth deeply in the abdomen.

At any rate, he did a most un-Ifugao-like thing: he attempted suicide, stabbing himself deep into the liver several times. Himself he could not kill--though he made an honest effort--and was the only one of the three to survive. It was the only instance of suicidal attempt I heard of during my years in Ifugaoland. Thus Persimmon. He did not suspect Soft Stone of alienating his wife's affections--it was simply that he loved life less than he hated the parasitism of women."	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence for	adult	exwife	female	na	Evidence for	male	exwife	Evidence against		perpetrate violence	attempt	x	Evidence for	na		"Persimmon's comrades in arms noted a change in him immediately after the next pay day and later testified they had had an inkling of tragic possibilities. He would whet his mess kit knife for hours at a time. When they asked him why he was so preoccupied thus, he answered, ""Oh, some day we'll kill a fat hog for the company, and I'll be the one to cut it up."" He presented the characteristic symptoms of a Malay generating that form of brainstorm that has enriched our language with the word ""amok."" One night Persimmon went to his former home and called on Cicada and her mother. He sat down in the door-way and talked for a few moments with disarming friendliness. Then he called to Soft Stone in the next house, inviting him over. ""Soft Stone,"" he said, ""when are you going to pay me that three pesos and a half you borrowed for a month--more than a year ago?"" ""Oh!"" said Soft Stone, ""I know that I have been a little slow, but after next harvest I will go to the lowlands to work for the government on bridges, and then I'll repay you."" [p. 103] Quicker than a snake strikes, Persimmon stabbed the youth deeply in the abdomen."	6	x	"He presented the characteristic symptoms of a Malay generating that form of brainstorm that has enriched our language with the word ""amok."" One night Persimmon went to his former home and called on Cicada and her mother. He sat down in the door-way and talked for a few moments with disarming friendliness. Then he called to Soft Stone in the next house, inviting him over. ""Soft Stone,"" he said, ""when are you going to pay me that three pesos and a half you borrowed for a month--more than a year ago?"" ""Oh!"" said Soft Stone, ""I know that I have been a little slow, but after next harvest I will go to the lowlands to work for the government on bridges, and then I'll repay you."" [p. 103] Quicker than a snake strikes, Persimmon stabbed the youth deeply in the abdomen."	commit homicide	no	"But the demand for his trade had ceased, and he would work at nothing else. This couple had a baby boy. Next door to them lived Persimmon, a soldier in the Philippine Constabulary, and his wife, Cicada (or, as we might translate, Seventeen-Year-Locust). The two were incompatible. I remember the names because of their suggestion of the dominant traits of the individuals and of the [p. 101] sources of the domestic friction. A situation already bad was complicated further by the fact that Cicada's mother, from whom the girl inherited her signal characteristic, was a third member of the household. One day Persimmon suggested a divorce. For once, Cicada agreed with him--too quickly, indeed. Then she lapsed into silence and thought--both unusual. Between her vocal cords and her mind there seems to have existed the same relation as between the whistle and the engine of a traditional Mississippi tug-boat: when either worked it required all the steam, and the other had to quit. Viewing her thus silent, and contemplating her curves, almost none of which were concealed by clothing, Persimmon found her as irresistibly attractive to the eye as she was usually irritating to the ear. He repented of his suggestion--that was his first mistake. Cicada was thinking about alimony. (It has often been observed that primitive folk take most heartily to the doubtful importations civilization brings.) A new company commander had been allowing alimony to divorcees of soldiers. Cicada went straightway to the C.O., who, over Persimmon's protest that he still wanted her, granted a divorce with alimony until such time as she should again become a bride--which, she declared, would be never! Persimmon took her at her word, and the prospect [p. 102] appalled him. A second mistake, perhaps, although he might be presumed to know better than anybody else of what her malice was capable. And he could hardly be optimistic, since she was his fourth wife to turn out disappointingly. Persimmon's comrades in arms noted a change in him immediately after the next pay day and later testified they had had an inkling of tragic possibilities. He would whet his mess kit knife for hours at a time. When they asked him why he was so preoccupied thus, he answered, ""Oh, some day we'll kill a fat hog for the company, and I'll be the one to cut it up."" He presented the characteristic symptoms of a Malay generating that form of brainstorm that has enriched our language with the word ""amok."" One night Persimmon went to his former home and called on Cicada and her mother. He sat down in the door-way and talked for a few moments with disarming friendliness. Then he called to Soft Stone in the next house, inviting him over. ""Soft Stone,"" he said, ""when are you going to pay me that three pesos and a half you borrowed for a month--more than a year ago?"" ""Oh!"" said Soft Stone, ""I know that I have been a little slow, but after next harvest I will go to the lowlands to work for the government on bridges, and then I'll repay you."" [p. 103] Quicker than a snake strikes, Persimmon stabbed the youth deeply in the abdomen. Before Cicada could jump out of the back door, only six feet away, he had caught her and stabbed her twice through the left breast. He turned to murder his mother-in-law, but she had escaped. Possibly he had been looking forward too fondly to that dnouement and could not brook his disappointment. At any rate, he did a most un-Ifugao-like thing: he attempted suicide, stabbing himself deep into the liver several times. Himself he could not kill--though he made an honest effort--and was the only one of the three to survive. It was the only instance of suicidal attempt I heard of during my years in Ifugaoland. Thus Persimmon. He did not suspect Soft Stone of alienating his wife's affections--it was simply that he loved life less than he hated the parasitism of women. And, while punishing that, he thought well to punish also the parasitism of ""I'll-pay-you-pretty-soon."" Soft Stone's wife had been christianized. She called the missionary, who, while I was bandaging the wounds inflicted on her husband, baptized him and made him a christian--a thing about which poor Soft Stone had no say, since he was unconscious during the whole process"	And he could hardly be optimistic, since she was his fourth wife to turn out disappointingly.	x	x	not stated	1	"He presented the characteristic symptoms of a Malay generating that form of brainstorm that has enriched our language with the word ""amok."" One night Persimmon went to his former home and called on Cicada and her mother. He sat down in the door-way and talked for a few moments with disarming friendliness. Then he called to Soft Stone in the next house, inviting him over. ""Soft Stone,"" he said, ""when are you going to pay me that three pesos and a half you borrowed for a month--more than a year ago?"" ""Oh!"" said Soft Stone, ""I know that I have been a little slow, but after next harvest I will go to the lowlands to work for the government on bridges, and then I'll repay you."" [p. 103] Quicker than a snake strikes, Persimmon stabbed the youth deeply in the abdomen."	appears to have survived inadvertently 	x	Evidence for	public	no	No evidence	average,unknown	firsthand
132	zgarfield	Cultural model	Korea	There are a great many bad mothers-in-law in Korea, although there are certainly good specimens too. Sometimes things get to such a pass that the young wife commits suicide, either by plunging into a river or by taking a big dose of washing powder, a commodity kept in every house.	No evidence	x	adult	Sometimes things get to such a pass that the young wife commits suicide	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Sometimes things get to such a pass that the young wife commits suicide	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	poisoning,drowning	Sometimes things get to such a pass that the young wife commits suicide	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	kin	female	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	Sometimes things get to such a pass that the young wife commits suicide	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		na
132	syme	Cultural model	Korea	There are a great many bad mothers-in-law in Korea, although there are certainly good specimens too. Sometimes things get to such a pass that the young wife commits suicide, either by plunging into a river or by taking a big dose of washing powder, a commodity kept in every house.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult	 There are a great many bad mothers-in-law in Korea, although there are certainly good specimens too. Sometimes things get to such a pass that the young wife commits suicide, either by plunging into a river or by taking a big dose of washing powder, a commodity kept in every house.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 There are a great many bad mothers-in-law in Korea, although there are certainly good specimens too. Sometimes things get to such a pass that the young wife commits suicide, either by plunging into a river or by taking a big dose of washing powder, a commodity kept in every house.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	poisoning,drowning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	elder	mother in law	female	na	No evidence	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	average,low,unknown	na
133	zgarfield	Case	Korea	"A 22-year-old son who reportedly was dominated by his mother and had no other way to protest against the situation, ran out of the house, jumped into the water and started swimming out to sea. The screams of his sister finally alerted rescuers who went after him with a boat while the mother yelled, ""What is a human life? Something to be crushed like a fly!"" We watched all this from our vantage point on the hill as if it were some violent tragedy performed on a far-off stage. The boy was brought back unharmed, and the mother went on cursing and screaming for several hours. She roamed about [p. 207] the neighborhood pounding on the doors of houses and commenting on the sexual peculiarities of the men who lived inside; anyone in her path was likely to be sworn at and pummeled. A day or so later when she had calmed down, a group of neighbors visited her to ask that more consideration be given to the children. It was also pointed out that a repetition of such acts would probably bring a police investigation. Despite the exceptional and scandalous nature of these cases as well as the intensity of the animosity that was generated, none of the persons involved considered leaving the village or even renouncing his family ties. In both cases neighbors and kinsmen intervened in an attempt to promote some sort of acceptable settlement. Villagers spoke disparagingly of everyone concerned, however, and their low personal status was further emphasized."	No evidence	x	adult	A 22-year-old son who reportedly was dominated by his mother and had no other way to protest against the situation, ran out of the house, jumped into the water and started swimming out to sea.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	A 22-year-old son who reportedly was dominated by his mother and had no other way to protest against the situation, ran out of the house, jumped into the water and started swimming out to sea.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	A 22-year-old son who reportedly was dominated by his mother and had no other way to protest against the situation, ran out of the house, jumped into the water and started swimming out to sea.	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	female	na	No evidence	male	mother	No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	attempt	22	No evidence	na		x	4	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated		x	The boy was brought back unharmed, and the mother went on cursing and screaming for several hours.	x	Evidence for	public	no	Evidence for		first person
133	syme	Case	Korea	"A 22-year-old son who reportedly was dominated by his mother and had no other way to protest against the situation, ran out of the house, jumped into the water and started swimming out to sea. The screams of his sister finally alerted rescuers who went after him with a boat while the mother yelled, ""What is a human life? Something to be crushed like a fly!"" We watched all this from our vantage point on the hill as if it were some violent tragedy performed on a far-off stage. The boy was brought back unharmed, and the mother went on cursing and screaming for several hours. She roamed about [p. 207] the neighborhood pounding on the doors of houses and commenting on the sexual peculiarities of the men who lived inside; anyone in her path was likely to be sworn at and pummeled. A day or so later when she had calmed down, a group of neighbors visited her to ask that more consideration be given to the children. It was also pointed out that a repetition of such acts would probably bring a police investigation. Despite the exceptional and scandalous nature of these cases as well as the intensity of the animosity that was generated, none of the persons involved considered leaving the village or even renouncing his family ties. In both cases neighbors and kinsmen intervened in an attempt to promote some sort of acceptable settlement. Villagers spoke disparagingly of everyone concerned, however, and their low personal status was further emphasized."	No evidence	x	young adult	"A 22-year-old son who reportedly was dominated by his mother and had no other way to protest against the situation, ran out of the house, jumped into the water and started swimming out to sea. The screams of his sister finally alerted rescuers who went after him with a boat while the mother yelled, ""What is a human life? Something to be crushed like a fly!"" We watched all this from our vantage point on the hill as if it were some violent tragedy performed on a far-off stage.

The boy was brought back unharmed, and the mother went on cursing and screaming for several hours. She roamed about [p. 207] the neighborhood pounding on the doors of houses and commenting on the sexual peculiarities of the men who lived inside; anyone in her path was likely to be sworn at and pummeled.
"	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"A 22-year-old son who reportedly was dominated by his mother and had no other way to protest against the situation, ran out of the house, jumped into the water and started swimming out to sea. The screams of his sister finally alerted rescuers who went after him with a boat while the mother yelled, ""What is a human life? Something to be crushed like a fly!"" We watched all this from our vantage point on the hill as if it were some violent tragedy performed on a far-off stage.

The boy was brought back unharmed, and the mother went on cursing and screaming for several hours. She roamed about [p. 207] the neighborhood pounding on the doors of houses and commenting on the sexual peculiarities of the men who lived inside; anyone in her path was likely to be sworn at and pummeled.
"	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	drowning	A 22-year-old son who reportedly was dominated by his mother and had no other way to protest against the situation, ran out of the house, jumped into the water and started swimming out to sea.	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	mother	female	na	No evidence	male	mother	Evidence for		no evidence	attempt	22	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	6	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"The boy was brought back unharmed, and the mother went on cursing and screaming for several hours. She roamed about [p. 207] the neighborhood pounding on the doors of houses and commenting on the sexual peculiarities of the men who lived inside; anyone in her path was likely to be sworn at and pummeled.

A day or so later when she had calmed down, a group of neighbors visited her to ask that more consideration be given to the children. It was also pointed out that a repetition of such acts would probably bring a police investigation.

Despite the exceptional and scandalous nature of these cases as well as the intensity of the animosity that was generated, none of the persons involved considered leaving the village or even renouncing his family ties. In both cases neighbors and kinsmen intervened in an attempt to promote some sort of acceptable settlement. Villagers spoke disparagingly of everyone concerned, however, and their low personal status was further emphasized."	x	Evidence for	public	no	No evidence	low	firsthand
134	zgarfield	Case	Korea	Dispute over a Concubine This man (the elder brother in the previous account) had led an eventful life. In 1964 and 1965 he had been living in Seoul, where he dealt illegally and profitably in cosmetics. During that time he acquired both a wife and a concubine and maintained two houses. This style of living combined with a disastrous police raid forced his return to S[unknown] okp'o with the two women as a penniless dependent of his parents. His relatives and wife were anxious to get rid of the concubine, who was pregnant, but the son was adamant and they all continued to live together. The wife's account of this story was somewhat ambivalent; at one point she boasted of her husband's prowess in attracting and satisfying two young women, and then complained that the situation was unbearable. [p. 211] At any rate, things deteriorated to a point where she attempted suicide in protest, and the concubine was eventually moved out of the house with her baby to a room in a different neighborhood. Then while the son was away on an extended fishing trip, his mother and wife simply refused to give the girl any food and she was forced to go back to Seoul. When the husband returned, there was a big family quarrel with lots of noise and he beat his wife, but the situation had finally been resolved to the relief of kin and neighbors. The weakness of the concubine's position, which depended entirely on the personal support of her lover, is readily apparent. Since the wife had provided a son, there was no justification at all for the woman's presence in the village. Still, if the husband had been able to provide more generous material support, he probably could have maintained his polygynous household, at least for a time. While the impulsive and tyrannical behavior of this eldest son was tolerated temporarily, without wealth he was unable to have his way in the face of the united opposition of parents, wife, and village opinion.	No evidence	x	adult	The wife's account of this story was somewhat ambivalent; at one point she boasted of her husband's prowess in attracting and satisfying two young women, and then complained that the situation was unbearable. [p. 211] At any rate, things deteriorated to a point where she attempted suicide in protest, and the concubine was eventually moved out of the house with her baby to a room in a different neighborhood.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The wife's account of this story was somewhat ambivalent; at one point she boasted of her husband's prowess in attracting and satisfying two young women, and then complained that the situation was unbearable. [p. 211] At any rate, things deteriorated to a point where she attempted suicide in protest, and the concubine was eventually moved out of the house with her baby to a room in a different neighborhood.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated		No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	male	na	No evidence	female	spouse	Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		yes	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		first person
134	syme	Case	Korea	Dispute over a Concubine This man (the elder brother in the previous account) had led an eventful life. In 1964 and 1965 he had been living in Seoul, where he dealt illegally and profitably in cosmetics. During that time he acquired both a wife and a concubine and maintained two houses. This style of living combined with a disastrous police raid forced his return to S[unknown] okp'o with the two women as a penniless dependent of his parents. His relatives and wife were anxious to get rid of the concubine, who was pregnant, but the son was adamant and they all continued to live together. The wife's account of this story was somewhat ambivalent; at one point she boasted of her husband's prowess in attracting and satisfying two young women, and then complained that the situation was unbearable. [p. 211] At any rate, things deteriorated to a point where she attempted suicide in protest, and the concubine was eventually moved out of the house with her baby to a room in a different neighborhood. Then while the son was away on an extended fishing trip, his mother and wife simply refused to give the girl any food and she was forced to go back to Seoul. When the husband returned, there was a big family quarrel with lots of noise and he beat his wife, but the situation had finally been resolved to the relief of kin and neighbors. The weakness of the concubine's position, which depended entirely on the personal support of her lover, is readily apparent. Since the wife had provided a son, there was no justification at all for the woman's presence in the village. Still, if the husband had been able to provide more generous material support, he probably could have maintained his polygynous household, at least for a time. While the impulsive and tyrannical behavior of this eldest son was tolerated temporarily, without wealth he was unable to have his way in the face of the united opposition of parents, wife, and village opinion.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,unknown	 Dispute over a Concubine This man (the elder brother in the previous account) had led an eventful life. In 1964 and 1965 he had been living in Seoul, where he dealt illegally and profitably in cosmetics. During that time he acquired both a wife and a concubine and maintained two houses. This style of living combined with a disastrous police raid forced his return to S[unknown] okp'o with the two women as a penniless dependent of his parents. His relatives and wife were anxious to get rid of the concubine, who was pregnant, but the son was adamant and they all continued to live together. The wife's account of this story was somewhat ambivalent; at one point she boasted of her husband's prowess in attracting and satisfying two young women, and then complained that the situation was unbearable. [p. 211] At any rate, things deteriorated to a point where she attempted suicide in protest, and the concubine was eventually moved out of the house with her baby to a room in a different neighborhood. 	interpersonal confli,resource loss	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 Dispute over a Concubine This man (the elder brother in the previous account) had led an eventful life. In 1964 and 1965 he had been living in Seoul, where he dealt illegally and profitably in cosmetics. During that time he acquired both a wife and a concubine and maintained two houses. This style of living combined with a disastrous police raid forced his return to S[unknown] okp'o with the two women as a penniless dependent of his parents. His relatives and wife were anxious to get rid of the concubine, who was pregnant, but the son was adamant and they all continued to live together. The wife's account of this story was somewhat ambivalent; at one point she boasted of her husband's prowess in attracting and satisfying two young women, and then complained that the situation was unbearable. [p. 211] At any rate, things deteriorated to a point where she attempted suicide in protest, and the concubine was eventually moved out of the house with her baby to a room in a different neighborhood. Then while the son was away on an extended fishing trip, his mother and wife simply refused to give the girl any food and she was forced to go back to Seoul. When the husband returned, there was a big family quarrel with lots of noise and he beat his wife, but the situation had finally been resolved to the relief of kin and neighbors. The weakness of the concubine's position, which depended entirely on the personal support of her lover, is readily apparent. Since the wife had provided a son, there was no justification at all for the woman's presence in the village. Still, if the husband had been able to provide more generous material support, he probably could have maintained his polygynous household, at least for a time. While the impulsive and tyrannical behavior of this eldest son was tolerated temporarily, without wealth he was unable to have his way in the face of the united opposition of parents, wife, and village opinion.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	At any rate, things deteriorated to a point where she attempted suicide in protest, and the concubine was eventually moved out of the house with her baby to a room in a different neighborhood.	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	husband,cowife	male	na	Evidence for	female	husband,cowife	Evidence for		no evidence	attempt	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	polygyny	yes	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	At any rate, things deteriorated to a point where she attempted suicide in protest, and the concubine was eventually moved out of the house with her baby to a room in a different neighborhood. Then while the son was away on an extended fishing trip, his mother and wife simply refused to give the girl any food and she was forced to go back to Seoul. When the husband returned, there was a big family quarrel with lots of noise and he beat his wife, but the situation had finally been resolved to the relief of kin and neighbors. The weakness of the concubine's position, which depended entirely on the personal support of her lover, is readily apparent. Since the wife had provided a son, there was no justification at all for the woman's presence in the village. Still, if the husband had been able to provide more generous material support, he probably could have maintained his polygynous household, at least for a time. While the impulsive and tyrannical behavior of this eldest son was tolerated temporarily, without wealth he was unable to have his way in the face of the united opposition of parents, wife, and village opinion.	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence against	low	firsthand
135	zgarfield	Case	Korea	"Shamans play a significant role in folk religion. When a family has suffered continuously from various misfortunes, it is common to consult a shaman, because illness and misfortunes are often viewed as the result by angers of spirits who govern functionings of human daily life. A shaman usually recommends that the wife of the household perform a shamanic casting away ceremony in order to relieve the anger of bad spirits. The date of the performance is set for one of the ""clean"" days according to the [p. 191] lunar calendar.7 ) On the day of the ceremony, the wife of a household cleans the whole house. The ceremony starts at dinner time before the sunset and lasts until one or two o'clock in the morning. The most important items of food offered to the various spirits which govern all aspects of human life are rice, raw and cooked, vegetables, dried fish and pork. Rice especially symbolizes the wealth of the family. It is constantly offered on the temporary altar arranged in the main living room of the house. The shaman who is invited to this ceremony (kut) sets the table for all the spirits including the ancestral spirits. After the table is set, she starts singing, inviting the spirits to the feast offered by the wife of the household. Next, she tries to talk personally with each ancestral spirit related to the wife of the household. In this case, ancestors who died outside their home or women who died without a surviving son, receive the most attention because unhappy ancestors might be the cause of the bad luck of the household. One ceremony that was performed in 1977 was carried out in order to help the wife of the household who constantly suffered from economic and family problems. She was once the mistress of the present husband, and later became a legal wife to him after his former wife committed suicide. The recent troubles that she suffered brought back all her old guilt feelings. She had been worried about the stained relationship with her husband and step sons. The shaman in charge of that ceremony invoked her family problems in public in the presence of her husband and her step sons. The troubled wife acknowledged her fault in public, asked the dead former wife of her husband to forgive her fault and promised to offer the ancestor worship ceremony to the spirit of the dead former wife of her husband sincerely. the wife of the household carried on that shamanic performance and invited as many guests as possible because it is generally thought that the more people participate in the ceremony the more benefit the sponsoring person can derive from it. The shaman also liked to have many guests. During the ceremony, food was freely offered to all the participants. Therefore, it turned out to be a feast in that settlement. Most of the participants were expected to respond vocally to the sharman's invitation in order to increase the dramatic effect of the ceremony. All in all, it was a very emotional exposing of the family's problems in public. After the ceremony, the conflicts in the family were fully understood by most participants. The troubled relationship of the woman to her family [p. 192] was supposed to be repaired through the help of ancestral spirits. This kind of special shamanic performance is also conducted when a person has died outside the house."	No evidence	x	adult	She was once the mistress of the present husband, and later became a legal wife to him after his former wife committed suicide	interpersonal confli		na	No evidence	She was once the mistress of the present husband, and later became a legal wife to him after his former wife committed suicide	na	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	male	na	No evidence			No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		na
135	syme	Case	Korea	"Shamans play a significant role in folk religion. When a family has suffered continuously from various misfortunes, it is common to consult a shaman, because illness and misfortunes are often viewed as the result by angers of spirits who govern functionings of human daily life. A shaman usually recommends that the wife of the household perform a shamanic casting away ceremony in order to relieve the anger of bad spirits. The date of the performance is set for one of the ""clean"" days according to the [p. 191] lunar calendar.7 ) On the day of the ceremony, the wife of a household cleans the whole house. The ceremony starts at dinner time before the sunset and lasts until one or two o'clock in the morning. The most important items of food offered to the various spirits which govern all aspects of human life are rice, raw and cooked, vegetables, dried fish and pork. Rice especially symbolizes the wealth of the family. It is constantly offered on the temporary altar arranged in the main living room of the house. The shaman who is invited to this ceremony (kut) sets the table for all the spirits including the ancestral spirits. After the table is set, she starts singing, inviting the spirits to the feast offered by the wife of the household. Next, she tries to talk personally with each ancestral spirit related to the wife of the household. In this case, ancestors who died outside their home or women who died without a surviving son, receive the most attention because unhappy ancestors might be the cause of the bad luck of the household. One ceremony that was performed in 1977 was carried out in order to help the wife of the household who constantly suffered from economic and family problems. She was once the mistress of the present husband, and later became a legal wife to him after his former wife committed suicide. The recent troubles that she suffered brought back all her old guilt feelings. She had been worried about the stained relationship with her husband and step sons. The shaman in charge of that ceremony invoked her family problems in public in the presence of her husband and her step sons. The troubled wife acknowledged her fault in public, asked the dead former wife of her husband to forgive her fault and promised to offer the ancestor worship ceremony to the spirit of the dead former wife of her husband sincerely. the wife of the household carried on that shamanic performance and invited as many guests as possible because it is generally thought that the more people participate in the ceremony the more benefit the sponsoring person can derive from it. The shaman also liked to have many guests. During the ceremony, food was freely offered to all the participants. Therefore, it turned out to be a feast in that settlement. Most of the participants were expected to respond vocally to the sharman's invitation in order to increase the dramatic effect of the ceremony. All in all, it was a very emotional exposing of the family's problems in public. After the ceremony, the conflicts in the family were fully understood by most participants. The troubled relationship of the woman to her family [p. 192] was supposed to be repaired through the help of ancestral spirits. This kind of special shamanic performance is also conducted when a person has died outside the house."	No evidence	haunt adversaries	adult	One ceremony that was performed in 1977 was carried out in order to help the wife of the household who constantly suffered from economic and family problems. She was once the mistress of the present husband, and later became a legal wife to him after his former wife committed suicide. The recent troubles that she suffered brought back all her old guilt feelings. She had been worried about the stained relationship with her husband and step sons. The shaman in charge of that ceremony invoked her family problems in public in the presence of her husband and her step sons. The troubled wife acknowledged her fault in public, asked the dead former wife of her husband to forgive her fault and promised to offer the ancestor worship ceremony to the spirit of the dead former wife of her husband sincerely. the wife of the household carried on that shamanic performance and invited as many guests as possible because it is generally thought that the more people participate in the ceremony the more benefit the sponsoring person can derive from it. The shaman also liked to have many guests. During the ceremony, food was freely offered to all the participants. Therefore, it turned out to be a feast in that settlement. Most of the participants were expected to respond vocally to the sharman's invitation in order to increase the dramatic effect of the ceremony. All in all, it was a very emotional exposing of the family's problems in public. After the ceremony, the conflicts in the family were fully understood by most participants. The troubled relationship of the woman to her family [p. 192] was supposed to be repaired through the help of ancestral spirits. This kind of special shamanic performance is also conducted when a person has died outside the house.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	One ceremony that was performed in 1977 was carried out in order to help the wife of the household who constantly suffered from economic and family problems. She was once the mistress of the present husband, and later became a legal wife to him after his former wife committed suicide. 	fearfully	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	True	husband	both	na	Evidence for	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	polygyny	yes	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	One ceremony that was performed in 1977 was carried out in order to help the wife of the household who constantly suffered from economic and family problems. She was once the mistress of the present husband, and later became a legal wife to him after his former wife committed suicide. The recent troubles that she suffered brought back all her old guilt feelings. She had been worried about the stained relationship with her husband and step sons. The shaman in charge of that ceremony invoked her family problems in public in the presence of her husband and her step sons. The troubled wife acknowledged her fault in public, asked the dead former wife of her husband to forgive her fault and promised to offer the ancestor worship ceremony to the spirit of the dead former wife of her husband sincerely. the wife of the household carried on that shamanic performance and invited as many guests as possible because it is generally thought that the more people participate in the ceremony the more benefit the sponsoring person can derive from it. The shaman also liked to have many guests. During the ceremony, food was freely offered to all the participants. Therefore, it turned out to be a feast in that settlement. Most of the participants were expected to respond vocally to the sharman's invitation in order to increase the dramatic effect of the ceremony. All in all, it was a very emotional exposing of the family's problems in public. After the ceremony, the conflicts in the family were fully understood by most participants. The troubled relationship of the woman to her family [p. 192] was supposed to be repaired through the help of ancestral spirits. This kind of special shamanic performance is also conducted when a person has died outside the house.	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	average,unknown	unknown
136	zgarfield	Case	Korea	This process of the disappearing of a village is called s[unknown]okp'a. As an example of such internal changes, Pak, 61 years old and an immigrant from the southwestern part of mainland Korea, lived in this village for ten years. When he committed suicide by inhaling chemical insecticide in the late spring of 1976, his wife, along with a younger daughter, moved to another island to live with her son-in-law and yet another daughter. At this time, the son-in-law arrived in the village to help in the mourning ceremony for Pak's death and to demolish the house so as to retrieve wooden beams from it. Every night, the three remaining families saw themselves visited by the spirit of the dead and showed great anxiety.	No evidence	x	adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	na	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	poisoning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		yes	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		unknown
136	syme	Case	Korea	This process of the disappearing of a village is called s[unknown]okp'a. As an example of such internal changes, Pak, 61 years old and an immigrant from the southwestern part of mainland Korea, lived in this village for ten years. When he committed suicide by inhaling chemical insecticide in the late spring of 1976, his wife, along with a younger daughter, moved to another island to live with her son-in-law and yet another daughter. At this time, the son-in-law arrived in the village to help in the mourning ceremony for Pak's death and to demolish the house so as to retrieve wooden beams from it. Every night, the three remaining families saw themselves visited by the spirit of the dead and showed great anxiety.	No evidence	haunt family	elderly	x	na	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	fearfully	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	poisoning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		x	na	na	No evidence	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	61	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	immigration	yes	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	At this time, the son-in-law arrived in the village to help in the mourning ceremony for Pak's death and to demolish the house so as to retrieve wooden beams from it. Every night, the three remaining families saw themselves visited by the spirit of the dead and showed great anxiety.	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
137	zgarfield	Case	Korea	Twenty years ago when vague rumors of an imminent civil war were spreading throughout the land, Christian widows asked the missionary for permission to commit suicide if armed bands approached their house, and the priest had great difficulty in making them understand that even in such a case suicide is a crime abominable to God.	Evidence for	even in such a case suicide is a crime abominable to God.	adult	Christian widows asked the missionary for permission to commit suicide if armed bands approached their hous	group conflict,enslavement_capture	No evidence	na	No evidence	Christian widows asked the missionary for permission to commit suicide if armed bands approached their hous	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	Christian widows asked the missionary for permission to commit suicide if armed bands approached their house	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	Christian widows asked the missionary for permission to commit suicide if armed bands approached their house	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	no	No evidence		hearsay
137	syme	Case	Korea	Twenty years ago when vague rumors of an imminent civil war were spreading throughout the land, Christian widows asked the missionary for permission to commit suicide if armed bands approached their house, and the priest had great difficulty in making them understand that even in such a case suicide is a crime abominable to God.	No evidence	negative (missionary influence)	adult,elderly,unknown	 Twenty years ago when vague rumors of an imminent civil war were spreading throughout the land, Christian widows asked the missionary for permission to commit suicide if armed bands approached their house, and the priest had great difficulty in making them understand that even in such a case suicide is a crime abominable to God.	group conflict,enslavement_capture,military defeat	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 Twenty years ago when vague rumors of an imminent civil war were spreading throughout the land, Christian widows asked the missionary for permission to commit suicide if armed bands approached their house, and the priest had great difficulty in making them understand that even in such a case suicide is a crime abominable to God.	ambivalently	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	outgroup	na	na	No evidence	female	x	No evidence		war	ideation	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	x	unknown	fear of soldiers approaching home	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	 Twenty years ago when vague rumors of an imminent civil war were spreading throughout the land, Christian widows asked the missionary for permission to commit suicide if armed bands approached their house, and the priest had great difficulty in making them understand that even in such a case suicide is a crime abominable to God.	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	low,unknown	unknown
138	zgarfield	Cultural model	Korea	Sometimes young widows have been known to commit suicide immediately after their husband's funeral so as the better to prove their fidelity and to put their [CXXVIII] reputation and honor beyond all reproach. The nobility cannot be too outspoken in the praise of these model wives, and they almost always succeed in getting the king to dedicate a public monument, column or temple to them which will preserve the memory of their heroism.	Evidence for	x	adult	Sometimes young widows have been known to commit suicide immediately after their husband's funeral so as the better to prove their fidelity and to put their [CXXVIII] reputation and honor beyond all reproach.	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	so as the better to prove their fidelity and to put their [CXXVIII] reputation and honor beyond all reproach	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female	x	No evidence	Evidence for	death of a loved one	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	so as the better to prove their fidelity and to put their [CXXVIII] reputation and honor beyond all reproach		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	yes	No evidence		unknown
138	syme	Cultural model	Korea	Sometimes young widows have been known to commit suicide immediately after their husband's funeral so as the better to prove their fidelity and to put their [CXXVIII] reputation and honor beyond all reproach. The nobility cannot be too outspoken in the praise of these model wives, and they almost always succeed in getting the king to dedicate a public monument, column or temple to them which will preserve the memory of their heroism.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult	Sometimes young widows have been known to commit suicide immediately after their husband's funeral so as the better to prove their fidelity and to put their [CXXVIII] reputation and honor beyond all reproach. The nobility cannot be too outspoken in the praise of these model wives, and they almost always succeed in getting the king to dedicate a public monument, column or temple to them which will preserve the memory of their heroism.	death loved one	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	x	approvingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	Sometimes young widows have been known to commit suicide immediately after their husband's funeral so as the better to prove their fidelity and to put their [CXXVIII] reputation and honor beyond all reproach. The nobility cannot be too outspoken in the praise of these model wives, and they almost always succeed in getting the king to dedicate a public monument, column or temple to them which will preserve the memory of their heroism.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	female	husband	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	 the king to dedicate a public monument, column or temple to them which will preserve the memory of their heroism.	x	Evidence for	unknown	yes	No evidence	low,unknown	na
140	zgarfield	Case	Korea	"Shamanistic Rites At shamanistic rites called kut, ancestors are propitiated along with an assortment of local and household deities. Typically, a village household hires a few professional shamans to come and perform akut when an ancestor or deity is thought to have caused a serious illness or other misfortune. Offerings made to placate supernatural beings at kut consist primarily of food and money; sometimes a set of clothing is offered for a dead relative to use. Part of the food is consumed by participants during the rite; but most of the food, the money, and the occasional sets of clothing are kept by the shamans as part of their compensation. Kut are performed far less often than ancestor rituals, but each kut consumes far more time and money than a domestic or lineage rite. A given household rarely offers more than one in several years. A kut begins about mid-afternoon and runs until mid-morning of the following day. In 1978, the average cost of a kut was a few hundred U.S. dollars, about twenty times the expense of a typical death-day offering. Kut are dramatic and entertaining: shamans take turns beating drums and gongs, singing mythical narratives, performing comic skits, and impersonating supernatural beings. Speaking through [p. 149] the mouth of a shaman, deities act like corrupt and rapacious officials. They denigrate the quality of food presented to them, feign insult at the size of their offerings, and demand more and more money as they sing and dance about. Villagers refuse to be intimidated; they cajole, negotiate, and match wits with the deities, pleading for good fortune and trying to hold on to their cash. Some of the participants too play musical instruments or dance. Everyone has a good time. A portion of every kut is performed by one of the shamans especially for ancestors. This highly dramatic seance is far more serious than the exchanges with deities. Ancestors lament their discomforts in the afterlife, complain about their grave locations, or grieve over the mistreatment and neglect they suffered as elders at the hands of their living kin. Playing on the sympathies of their listeners, ancestors plead for a little more money, another cup of wine, or a different gravesite. The seance is usually performed in the early hours of the morning and is clearly one of the most important parts of every kut: informants say as much themselves, and many participants leave and return to their homes when the seance is finished. Most of the participants at a kut are women over 40; few younger women are present. Men of the sponsoring household, together with their closest kinsmen and neighbors, usually attend the early evening segments of a kut but then retire to the ""across room"" or leave the house altogether. No male villager participates in ancestor seances. At one seance, the head of the sponsoring household was physically present, but he lay on the floor, covered with a blanket, and appeared to sleep throughout the event. The women who attend a kut are drawn primarily from the sponsoring household's closest neighbors and kin; most live in the same hamlet or belong to the same ritual-performing segment. Usually, a few other women attend, especially some elderly lineage wives who take a special interest in these rites. Though no one's presence is formally required, one woman was criticized for absenting herself from an ancestor seance held at a household of her own hamlet and ritual-performing segment. The woman, an eldest son's wife, was apparently reluctant to face her dead mother-in-law. The old woman, who had committed suicide seven months earlier, made a dramatic appearance at the seance."	No evidence	x	adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	unknown	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		yes	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		first person
140	syme	Case	Korea	"Shamanistic Rites At shamanistic rites called kut, ancestors are propitiated along with an assortment of local and household deities. Typically, a village household hires a few professional shamans to come and perform akut when an ancestor or deity is thought to have caused a serious illness or other misfortune. Offerings made to placate supernatural beings at kut consist primarily of food and money; sometimes a set of clothing is offered for a dead relative to use. Part of the food is consumed by participants during the rite; but most of the food, the money, and the occasional sets of clothing are kept by the shamans as part of their compensation. Kut are performed far less often than ancestor rituals, but each kut consumes far more time and money than a domestic or lineage rite. A given household rarely offers more than one in several years. A kut begins about mid-afternoon and runs until mid-morning of the following day. In 1978, the average cost of a kut was a few hundred U.S. dollars, about twenty times the expense of a typical death-day offering. Kut are dramatic and entertaining: shamans take turns beating drums and gongs, singing mythical narratives, performing comic skits, and impersonating supernatural beings. Speaking through [p. 149] the mouth of a shaman, deities act like corrupt and rapacious officials. They denigrate the quality of food presented to them, feign insult at the size of their offerings, and demand more and more money as they sing and dance about. Villagers refuse to be intimidated; they cajole, negotiate, and match wits with the deities, pleading for good fortune and trying to hold on to their cash. Some of the participants too play musical instruments or dance. Everyone has a good time. A portion of every kut is performed by one of the shamans especially for ancestors. This highly dramatic seance is far more serious than the exchanges with deities. Ancestors lament their discomforts in the afterlife, complain about their grave locations, or grieve over the mistreatment and neglect they suffered as elders at the hands of their living kin. Playing on the sympathies of their listeners, ancestors plead for a little more money, another cup of wine, or a different gravesite. The seance is usually performed in the early hours of the morning and is clearly one of the most important parts of every kut: informants say as much themselves, and many participants leave and return to their homes when the seance is finished. Most of the participants at a kut are women over 40; few younger women are present. Men of the sponsoring household, together with their closest kinsmen and neighbors, usually attend the early evening segments of a kut but then retire to the ""across room"" or leave the house altogether. No male villager participates in ancestor seances. At one seance, the head of the sponsoring household was physically present, but he lay on the floor, covered with a blanket, and appeared to sleep throughout the event. The women who attend a kut are drawn primarily from the sponsoring household's closest neighbors and kin; most live in the same hamlet or belong to the same ritual-performing segment. Usually, a few other women attend, especially some elderly lineage wives who take a special interest in these rites. Though no one's presence is formally required, one woman was criticized for absenting herself from an ancestor seance held at a household of her own hamlet and ritual-performing segment. The woman, an eldest son's wife, was apparently reluctant to face her dead mother-in-law. The old woman, who had committed suicide seven months earlier, made a dramatic appearance at the seance."	No evidence	haunt family	elderly	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	fearfully	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	Though no one's presence is formally required, one woman was criticized for absenting herself from an ancestor seance held at a household of her own hamlet and ritual-performing segment. The woman, an eldest son's wife, was apparently reluctant to face her dead mother-in-law. The old woman, who had committed suicide seven months earlier, made a dramatic appearance at the seance.	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
141	zgarfield	Case	Korea	"""When I returned to my home during the last week in August, I found a shocking contrast to the mystic world I had just left.... It may seem strange to the reader unfamiliar with Far-Eastern politics that Korea, an independent nation for over forty-two centuries, should have been so helpless those first ten years of the twentieth century before the stealthy but persistent encroaching of New Japan. But Japan's strength in the East is due to rapid Westernization, especially in regard to armament. That alone, perhaps, she thoroughly learned, since the time of Perry's entrance, and is thoroughly competent to proselyte. With the vigor of a younger nation, engaged already in enormous changing, inherently imitative, it is easy for her to slough one borrowed culture and to ab-[167] sorb another in its place. Yes, comparatively easy, as it was not for the older nations, China and Korea. Clinging closely to the old Confucian culture, and each in an exhausted era of their history, they were truly stunned for those first decades of world-wide intercourse. That little Japan won over the million millions of wise deep China, first. After her victory, she began to make her demands upon Korea, during the Russo-Japanese war. She must be allowed passage for her troops through Korea, and she signed a treaty stating that she had no designs upon the Korean state as a whole. These troops were never withdrawn. They remained to shelter the swarms of low-class Japanese adventurers who followed, and to uphold them in all they mis-did. Japan moved deliberately step by step. She first seized the silent control of the incompetent and bewildered government at Seoul, in 1907: hemmed in by spies and Japanese generals, the old emperor was made to abdicate to a minor son; then at last Japan spoke plainly, the 29th of August, 1910, when all treaties were annulled and Korea was publicly declared annexed...."" [p 167-168] ""When the news reached the grass roof in Song-Dune-Chi, my father turned a dark red, and could not even open his mouth. My unclepak-sa became suddenly very old, and he shrivelled and fainted in his own room. My crazy-poet uncle sat staring straight ahead of him until far into the night. My first thought was a selfish and immature one. 'Now I cannot be apak-sa or the prime minister of Korea.' I burst into tears. But my elders did not cry, not yet. So I ran crying out of the house. I looked up at the sky, to see if there were really a black doom up there. Were a final thunderstorm and a flood about to come which would wipe us all out? But the sky was blue and serene, and the river had only [168] a sunny crystal foam as it whirled past. Children were standing around with scared blank faces. The village was quiet. Nobody spoke. Later on, in the afternoon, there was a general weeping, everywhere the sound of mourning, as if each house in the village were wailing for somebody dead. Some men began to drink and drink, shouting: 'The doomsday has come! We have all gone to the Hell!' My father lurched out of the house, although he had had nothing to drink, and nothing to eat since morning. 'My poor poor children!' he cried out, and tears now streamed from his eyes. He held out his hands to us, as if we were all his eldest sons. 'Now all are going to die in the ruined starvation. The time of the unending famine has come down upon us. Who knows when we may be happy again?' And with tears running over his face, and mingling with his beard, he put up the Korean flag over our gateway and bowed down to it."" [p. 168] ""There was no supper that night. My grandmother sat up by candle-light, in the same dress she had worn in the morning. Again and again she took a cup of rice tea to my father, but he lay heavily on the mats, and he would not accept it. In the morning, it was found that several of the young men who had been among those drunk the night before had committed suicide. Their bodies lay along the banks of the stream where the women usually did washing on this day."	Evidence for	x	young adult	 Korea was publicly declared annexed..	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	In the morning, it was found that several of the young men who had been among those drunk the night before had committed suicide.		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	several	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		first person
141	syme	Case	Korea	"""When I returned to my home during the last week in August, I found a shocking contrast to the mystic world I had just left.... It may seem strange to the reader unfamiliar with Far-Eastern politics that Korea, an independent nation for over forty-two centuries, should have been so helpless those first ten years of the twentieth century before the stealthy but persistent encroaching of New Japan. But Japan's strength in the East is due to rapid Westernization, especially in regard to armament. That alone, perhaps, she thoroughly learned, since the time of Perry's entrance, and is thoroughly competent to proselyte. With the vigor of a younger nation, engaged already in enormous changing, inherently imitative, it is easy for her to slough one borrowed culture and to ab-[167] sorb another in its place. Yes, comparatively easy, as it was not for the older nations, China and Korea. Clinging closely to the old Confucian culture, and each in an exhausted era of their history, they were truly stunned for those first decades of world-wide intercourse. That little Japan won over the million millions of wise deep China, first. After her victory, she began to make her demands upon Korea, during the Russo-Japanese war. She must be allowed passage for her troops through Korea, and she signed a treaty stating that she had no designs upon the Korean state as a whole. These troops were never withdrawn. They remained to shelter the swarms of low-class Japanese adventurers who followed, and to uphold them in all they mis-did. Japan moved deliberately step by step. She first seized the silent control of the incompetent and bewildered government at Seoul, in 1907: hemmed in by spies and Japanese generals, the old emperor was made to abdicate to a minor son; then at last Japan spoke plainly, the 29th of August, 1910, when all treaties were annulled and Korea was publicly declared annexed...."" [p 167-168] ""When the news reached the grass roof in Song-Dune-Chi, my father turned a dark red, and could not even open his mouth. My unclepak-sa became suddenly very old, and he shrivelled and fainted in his own room. My crazy-poet uncle sat staring straight ahead of him until far into the night. My first thought was a selfish and immature one. 'Now I cannot be apak-sa or the prime minister of Korea.' I burst into tears. But my elders did not cry, not yet. So I ran crying out of the house. I looked up at the sky, to see if there were really a black doom up there. Were a final thunderstorm and a flood about to come which would wipe us all out? But the sky was blue and serene, and the river had only [168] a sunny crystal foam as it whirled past. Children were standing around with scared blank faces. The village was quiet. Nobody spoke. Later on, in the afternoon, there was a general weeping, everywhere the sound of mourning, as if each house in the village were wailing for somebody dead. Some men began to drink and drink, shouting: 'The doomsday has come! We have all gone to the Hell!' My father lurched out of the house, although he had had nothing to drink, and nothing to eat since morning. 'My poor poor children!' he cried out, and tears now streamed from his eyes. He held out his hands to us, as if we were all his eldest sons. 'Now all are going to die in the ruined starvation. The time of the unending famine has come down upon us. Who knows when we may be happy again?' And with tears running over his face, and mingling with his beard, he put up the Korean flag over our gateway and bowed down to it."" [p. 168] ""There was no supper that night. My grandmother sat up by candle-light, in the same dress she had worn in the morning. Again and again she took a cup of rice tea to my father, but he lay heavily on the mats, and he would not accept it. In the morning, it was found that several of the young men who had been among those drunk the night before had committed suicide. Their bodies lay along the banks of the stream where the women usually did washing on this day."	No evidence	x	young adult	"That little Japan won over the million millions of wise deep China, first. After her victory, she began to make her demands upon Korea, during the Russo-Japanese war. She must be allowed passage for her troops through Korea, and she signed a treaty stating that she had no designs upon the Korean state as a whole. These troops were never withdrawn. They remained to shelter the swarms of low-class Japanese adventurers who followed, and to uphold them in all they mis-did. Japan moved deliberately step by step. She first seized the silent control of the incompetent and bewildered government at Seoul, in 1907: hemmed in by spies and Japanese generals, the old emperor was made to abdicate to a minor son; then at last Japan spoke plainly, the 29th of August, 1910, when all treaties were annulled and Korea was publicly declared annexed...."" [p 167-168]"	group conflict,military defeat	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"That little Japan won over the million millions of wise deep China, first. After her victory, she began to make her demands upon Korea, during the Russo-Japanese war. She must be allowed passage for her troops through Korea, and she signed a treaty stating that she had no designs upon the Korean state as a whole. These troops were never withdrawn. They remained to shelter the swarms of low-class Japanese adventurers who followed, and to uphold them in all they mis-did. Japan moved deliberately step by step. She first seized the silent control of the incompetent and bewildered government at Seoul, in 1907: hemmed in by spies and Japanese generals, the old emperor was made to abdicate to a minor son; then at last Japan spoke plainly, the 29th of August, 1910, when all treaties were annulled and Korea was publicly declared annexed...."" [p 167-168]"	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	na	outgroup	na	na	No evidence	female	x	Evidence against		war	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	" The village was quiet. Nobody spoke. Later on, in the afternoon, there was a general weeping, everywhere the sound of mourning, as if each house in the village were wailing for somebody dead. Some men began to drink and drink, shouting: 'The doomsday has come! We have all gone to the Hell!' My father lurched out of the house, although he had had nothing to drink, and nothing to eat since morning. 'My poor poor children!' he cried out, and tears now streamed from his eyes. He held out his hands to us, as if we were all his eldest sons. 'Now all are going to die in the ruined starvation. The time of the unending famine has come down upon us. Who knows when we may be happy again?' And with tears running over his face, and mingling with his beard, he put up the Korean flag over our gateway and bowed down to it."" [p. 168] ""There was no supper that night. My grandmother sat up by candle-light, in the same dress she had worn in the morning. Again and again she took a cup of rice tea to my father, but he lay heavily on the mats, and he would not accept it. In the morning, it was found that several of the young men who had been among those drunk the night before had committed suicide. Their bodies lay along the banks of the stream where the women usually did washing on this day."	5	x	" The village was quiet. Nobody spoke. Later on, in the afternoon, there was a general weeping, everywhere the sound of mourning, as if each house in the village were wailing for somebody dead. Some men began to drink and drink, shouting: 'The doomsday has come! We have all gone to the Hell!' My father lurched out of the house, although he had had nothing to drink, and nothing to eat since morning. 'My poor poor children!' he cried out, and tears now streamed from his eyes. He held out his hands to us, as if we were all his eldest sons. 'Now all are going to die in the ruined starvation. The time of the unending famine has come down upon us. Who knows when we may be happy again?' And with tears running over his face, and mingling with his beard, he put up the Korean flag over our gateway and bowed down to it."" [p. 168] ""There was no supper that night. My grandmother sat up by candle-light, in the same dress she had worn in the morning. Again and again she took a cup of rice tea to my father, but he lay heavily on the mats, and he would not accept it. In the morning, it was found that several of the young men who had been among those drunk the night before had committed suicide. Their bodies lay along the banks of the stream where the women usually did washing on this day."	drunk at time	unknown	" The village was quiet. Nobody spoke. Later on, in the afternoon, there was a general weeping, everywhere the sound of mourning, as if each house in the village were wailing for somebody dead. Some men began to drink and drink, shouting: 'The doomsday has come! We have all gone to the Hell!' My father lurched out of the house, although he had had nothing to drink, and nothing to eat since morning. 'My poor poor children!' he cried out, and tears now streamed from his eyes. He held out his hands to us, as if we were all his eldest sons. 'Now all are going to die in the ruined starvation. The time of the unending famine has come down upon us. Who knows when we may be happy again?' And with tears running over his face, and mingling with his beard, he put up the Korean flag over our gateway and bowed down to it."" [p. 168] ""There was no supper that night. My grandmother sat up by candle-light, in the same dress she had worn in the morning. Again and again she took a cup of rice tea to my father, but he lay heavily on the mats, and he would not accept it. In the morning, it was found that several of the young men who had been among those drunk the night before had committed suicide. Their bodies lay along the banks of the stream where the women usually did washing on this day."	 The village was quiet. Nobody spoke. Later on, in the afternoon, there was a general weeping, everywhere the sound of mourning, as if each house in the village were wailing for somebody dead. Some men began to drink and drink, shouting: 'The doomsday has come! We have all gone to the Hell!' 	x	x	not stated	unknown	x	Again and again she took a cup of rice tea to my father, but he lay heavily on the mats, and he would not accept it. In the morning, it was found that several of the young men who had been among those drunk the night before had committed suicide. Their bodies lay along the banks of the stream where the women usually did washing on this day.	x	Evidence for	na	unknown	Evidence against	unknown	documented_account
142	zgarfield	Case	Korea	"""I had come only half-way and I was very tired of walking so much and eating so little, but I had one letter of introduction. This was the address of a radical rich friend of the crazy-poet, who used to visit him and had told me once if I ever came to Seoul, to be sure to stop and see him at the address he gave me. I spent many hungry hours thinking of the rich feast I would get at his house, and when I was tired, I comforted myself by thinking that I might stay with him two or three days to break the journey. He probably would insist on my taking some money too, I thought, which he would let me pay back later. Park Soo-San's idea was that private citizens should help poor students in search of Western education. He lived beyond Won-san, according to the address given. To reach his village, I had to go about twelve miles out of my way, along an uninviting stony path, little travelled. Since this was not in direct line to Seoul, I was constantly losing direction and making false starts; I did not reach his village until nightfall, though I had been trying to locate it from early dawn, but I persevered. The farther I came from home, the harder it was to find good schools. Lately I had [201] saved my appetite and my pennies with Mr. Kim in mind. The March evening was gray, bleak, when I entered the village of my crazy-poet uncle's friend and began inquiring for Mr. Kim, but my breast was light with anticipation, and I remember thinking, 'Turkey or duck, turkey or duck.' My Western hat and my haircut were not greeted with enthusiasm. At last when I had almost had a fight with the villagers to find out where Mr. Kim really lived, on being directed to his house, which was under sighing pine trees, I could only rouse an old woman who was deaf, and I saw no signs of the prosperity I had expected. I finally made out from what she told me, that Mr. Kim was no more, having committed suicide the night that Korea had been annexed by Japan. She alone was brave enough to live in that house because of his wailing ghost."""	No evidence	"She alone was brave enough to live in that house because of his wailing ghost.""
"	adult	Mr. Kim was no more, having committed suicide the night that Korea had been annexed by Japan	military defeat	No evidence	na	No evidence	Mr. Kim was no more, having committed suicide the night that Korea had been annexed by Japan	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	yes	No evidence		firsthand
142	syme	Case	Korea	"""I had come only half-way and I was very tired of walking so much and eating so little, but I had one letter of introduction. This was the address of a radical rich friend of the crazy-poet, who used to visit him and had told me once if I ever came to Seoul, to be sure to stop and see him at the address he gave me. I spent many hungry hours thinking of the rich feast I would get at his house, and when I was tired, I comforted myself by thinking that I might stay with him two or three days to break the journey. He probably would insist on my taking some money too, I thought, which he would let me pay back later. Park Soo-San's idea was that private citizens should help poor students in search of Western education. He lived beyond Won-san, according to the address given. To reach his village, I had to go about twelve miles out of my way, along an uninviting stony path, little travelled. Since this was not in direct line to Seoul, I was constantly losing direction and making false starts; I did not reach his village until nightfall, though I had been trying to locate it from early dawn, but I persevered. The farther I came from home, the harder it was to find good schools. Lately I had [201] saved my appetite and my pennies with Mr. Kim in mind. The March evening was gray, bleak, when I entered the village of my crazy-poet uncle's friend and began inquiring for Mr. Kim, but my breast was light with anticipation, and I remember thinking, 'Turkey or duck, turkey or duck.' My Western hat and my haircut were not greeted with enthusiasm. At last when I had almost had a fight with the villagers to find out where Mr. Kim really lived, on being directed to his house, which was under sighing pine trees, I could only rouse an old woman who was deaf, and I saw no signs of the prosperity I had expected. I finally made out from what she told me, that Mr. Kim was no more, having committed suicide the night that Korea had been annexed by Japan. She alone was brave enough to live in that house because of his wailing ghost."""	No evidence	haunt vicinity 	adult,elderly,unknown	" I finally made out from what she told me, that Mr. Kim was no more, having committed suicide the night that Korea had been annexed by Japan. She alone was brave enough to live in that house because of his wailing ghost."""	group conflict,military defeat	No evidence	na	Evidence for	" I finally made out from what she told me, that Mr. Kim was no more, having committed suicide the night that Korea had been annexed by Japan. She alone was brave enough to live in that house because of his wailing ghost."""	fearfully	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	outgroup	na	na	No evidence	male	x	Evidence against		war	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"She alone was brave enough to live in that house because of his wailing ghost."""	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
143	zgarfield	Case	Korea	"""'The most of what I have learned over here is Western politics,' I continued. 'Japan would do better to return to Eastern ideals somewhat. But she never will. As for me, I am through with politics. The life of silence and peace, the life that is the most beautiful, the life that is the most harmonious, the life that has no worry for the bread and butter, the life that does not have to be tickled by the love affairs, the life that touches no dirts and that has no care for the brilliant color of reputation nor the gay smell of society, the life that does not have to shed any more tears nor feel any more suffering, the life that is lived in quiet, and in solitude. Oh, that's the kind of life I want right now.' Iyado did not catch the symbolism, but he agreed. I went home and presented Iyado with my bookcase which I prized very highly. Rather, I told him to keep it until I came back, that I was going away in the morning. Then I said: 'Good-by, I may not see you again for a long time. Well--that's that.' During the night I could not sleep because I was thinking too much about difficult things. I turned my head this way, that way, this way, that way. I was planning to make a lonely excursion at break of day to the waterfall of Nikko, famous for its suicides, and for its cherry trees leaning like mist over a stream."" [p. 263] ""Early in the morning I set out. Ninety miles I went by rail, and took a 'ricksha. When I left the 'ricksha man the path led along by a clear woodland stream. Across the stream were little arched bridges of Japanese design, delicate, ornate, like the rest of Japan's culture. On either side cherry blossoms hovered like arrested snow, unstirred by the wind. As I walked, I sang over and over to myself the Japanese song: Life holds naught to cherish Save for me the cherry tree-- Ah, cherry flowers! It was a perfect day for a poetic suicide, dull, sultry, gray, save for the pure white cherry blossoms splashing the sky, making the pensive heart throb with pain. By night would come the rain, the dreary rain."" ""I came at last to the Sacred Red Bridge, resting upon two jagged granite rocks, making one graceful, sweeping leap across a rough gorge; below was a deep pool of foaming water. I was near the spot from which I planned to make a graceful dive into the Nikko waterfall, and there let my ghost dissolve away forever like the bubbles and the rainbow. When I went up to the waterfall, it was chained off in Western manner to prevent suicides and guards were going around. I was disappointed. But I wanted to die, and I had to do it for myself because I did not see any possibilities of being killed by somebody. So I stood and watched a long time, trying to solve the problem of how to jump into the waterfall and so commit suicide. At last it got to be late afternoon and the sun's rays were shooting directly into the Fall, where the reflection was very powerful like the glory of a beautiful death. I knew I was soon to jump into that clean pure water dropping down hundreds of feet. But should I not have dinner first, because I began to be hungry?"" [p. 264-265] ""There were two fellows inside of me. One said: 'Come, let's do it right away. Make a graceful dive into that waterfall and die quick.' The other fellow was saying: 'Why not take the time? There is a lot of time yet. And why throw away the money in the pocket? That would be waste.' The most pessimistic fellow gradually won out. I grasped the chain around the waterfall, ready to vault across it, and said: 'Oh, ghosts of this waterfall, take my love to Ok-Dong-Ya and Grandmother...' At that I stopped. I had meant to jump. Oh, I should just love to have that graceful dive which I had learned and practised so many times in the sea! But what would be the consequence? Had I any right to do this? Unquestionably I would be benefited. But I alone. How about others? Ok-Dong-Ya? My grandmother? I seemed to feel somebody pulling at my arm to draw me back. My suicide would break my grandmother's heart. And Ok-Dong-Ya might commit suicide after me. Then there was my father, and Park Soo-San, and many others who were interested in me. Some of these people would go into the state of madness. Now I seemed to see my grandmother standing before me with tears in her eyes. 'No, no, no,' she was hugging me, 'my dear Chung-Pa.' (What could I do?) 'No, my dear grandmother--I would not do it--no--never.' No, a thousand times, I could not. I cried, cried, and fell down there, not knowing what happened to me. For four years I had lived my life in silence, in solitude, in independence, for this it seemed to me was virtue, dignity, beauty. And to such a life death was the logical conclusion more beautiful, virtuous, dignified than anything else I could think of. [265] 'But what a terrible thing I have done!' I thought. 'Here I am not alone. It is the love that bound me to my loved one stopped this suicide. Oh, what a happy and lucky man he is, who has no lover, nor even a friend. He can commit suicide, but I am too closely interwoven with others and full of sense of human duty.' Finally I got up, and resolved to keep on this life. I had discovered that no human being can exist if he has no loved one. This I did not know before. 'I too exist from now on because my grandmother loves me, or I love her, and many others are interested in me. That is it.'"" [p 265] ""After that my feet were light to come back to my room. Iyado was not there. I was pleased to see again my bookcase which now I could take back. At once I opened all the letters in the flower-pocket on the wall, the letters of four years. I planned to read them in order. First, second and third contained not much. Ok-Dong-Ya sent me a classical poem of her own composition: Oh, since that parting on the bridge by banks of grass, I count each moment of this life an endless waste. I work, I sweep, defer, assent in morning tasks; I weave against the future wedding: it grows late. Tears that are raining as I write, I cannot stop. To think of my whole life's ambition aches my heart I ask when you and I shall meet again, but oh-- The distance between sky and clod, sweet sixteen past!"""	No evidence	x	adult	I am through with politics...As I walked, I sang over and over to myself the Japanese song: Life holds naught to cherish Save for me the cherry tree-- Ah, cherry flowers! It was a perfect day for a poetic suicide, dull, sultry, gray, save for the pure white cherry blossoms splashing the sky, making the pensive heart throb with pain.	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	When I went up to the waterfall, it was chained off in Western manner to prevent suicides and guards were going around. I was disappointed. But I wanted to die, and I had to do it for myself because I did not see any possibilities of being killed by somebody.	When I went up to the waterfall, it was chained off in Western manner to prevent suicides and guards were going around. I was disappointed. But I wanted to die, and I had to do it for myself because I did not see any possibilities of being killed by somebody.	x	x	not stated	1	x	Now I seemed to see my grandmother standing before me with tears in her eyes. 'No, no, no,' she was hugging me, 'my dear Chung-Pa.' (What could I do?) 'No, my dear grandmother--I would not do it--no--never.' No, a thousand times, I could not. I cried, cried, and fell down there, not knowing what happened to me. ...Finally I got up, and resolved to keep on this life. I had discovered that no human being can exist if he has no loved one. 	x	No evidence	public	no	Evidence against		first person
143	syme	Case	Korea	"""'The most of what I have learned over here is Western politics,' I continued. 'Japan would do better to return to Eastern ideals somewhat. But she never will. As for me, I am through with politics. The life of silence and peace, the life that is the most beautiful, the life that is the most harmonious, the life that has no worry for the bread and butter, the life that does not have to be tickled by the love affairs, the life that touches no dirts and that has no care for the brilliant color of reputation nor the gay smell of society, the life that does not have to shed any more tears nor feel any more suffering, the life that is lived in quiet, and in solitude. Oh, that's the kind of life I want right now.' Iyado did not catch the symbolism, but he agreed. I went home and presented Iyado with my bookcase which I prized very highly. Rather, I told him to keep it until I came back, that I was going away in the morning. Then I said: 'Good-by, I may not see you again for a long time. Well--that's that.' During the night I could not sleep because I was thinking too much about difficult things. I turned my head this way, that way, this way, that way. I was planning to make a lonely excursion at break of day to the waterfall of Nikko, famous for its suicides, and for its cherry trees leaning like mist over a stream."" [p. 263] ""Early in the morning I set out. Ninety miles I went by rail, and took a 'ricksha. When I left the 'ricksha man the path led along by a clear woodland stream. Across the stream were little arched bridges of Japanese design, delicate, ornate, like the rest of Japan's culture. On either side cherry blossoms hovered like arrested snow, unstirred by the wind. As I walked, I sang over and over to myself the Japanese song: Life holds naught to cherish Save for me the cherry tree-- Ah, cherry flowers! It was a perfect day for a poetic suicide, dull, sultry, gray, save for the pure white cherry blossoms splashing the sky, making the pensive heart throb with pain. By night would come the rain, the dreary rain."" ""I came at last to the Sacred Red Bridge, resting upon two jagged granite rocks, making one graceful, sweeping leap across a rough gorge; below was a deep pool of foaming water. I was near the spot from which I planned to make a graceful dive into the Nikko waterfall, and there let my ghost dissolve away forever like the bubbles and the rainbow. When I went up to the waterfall, it was chained off in Western manner to prevent suicides and guards were going around. I was disappointed. But I wanted to die, and I had to do it for myself because I did not see any possibilities of being killed by somebody. So I stood and watched a long time, trying to solve the problem of how to jump into the waterfall and so commit suicide. At last it got to be late afternoon and the sun's rays were shooting directly into the Fall, where the reflection was very powerful like the glory of a beautiful death. I knew I was soon to jump into that clean pure water dropping down hundreds of feet. But should I not have dinner first, because I began to be hungry?"" [p. 264-265] ""There were two fellows inside of me. One said: 'Come, let's do it right away. Make a graceful dive into that waterfall and die quick.' The other fellow was saying: 'Why not take the time? There is a lot of time yet. And why throw away the money in the pocket? That would be waste.' The most pessimistic fellow gradually won out. I grasped the chain around the waterfall, ready to vault across it, and said: 'Oh, ghosts of this waterfall, take my love to Ok-Dong-Ya and Grandmother...' At that I stopped. I had meant to jump. Oh, I should just love to have that graceful dive which I had learned and practised so many times in the sea! But what would be the consequence? Had I any right to do this? Unquestionably I would be benefited. But I alone. How about others? Ok-Dong-Ya? My grandmother? I seemed to feel somebody pulling at my arm to draw me back. My suicide would break my grandmother's heart. And Ok-Dong-Ya might commit suicide after me. Then there was my father, and Park Soo-San, and many others who were interested in me. Some of these people would go into the state of madness. Now I seemed to see my grandmother standing before me with tears in her eyes. 'No, no, no,' she was hugging me, 'my dear Chung-Pa.' (What could I do?) 'No, my dear grandmother--I would not do it--no--never.' No, a thousand times, I could not. I cried, cried, and fell down there, not knowing what happened to me. For four years I had lived my life in silence, in solitude, in independence, for this it seemed to me was virtue, dignity, beauty. And to such a life death was the logical conclusion more beautiful, virtuous, dignified than anything else I could think of. [265] 'But what a terrible thing I have done!' I thought. 'Here I am not alone. It is the love that bound me to my loved one stopped this suicide. Oh, what a happy and lucky man he is, who has no lover, nor even a friend. He can commit suicide, but I am too closely interwoven with others and full of sense of human duty.' Finally I got up, and resolved to keep on this life. I had discovered that no human being can exist if he has no loved one. This I did not know before. 'I too exist from now on because my grandmother loves me, or I love her, and many others are interested in me. That is it.'"" [p 265] ""After that my feet were light to come back to my room. Iyado was not there. I was pleased to see again my bookcase which now I could take back. At once I opened all the letters in the flower-pocket on the wall, the letters of four years. I planned to read them in order. First, second and third contained not much. Ok-Dong-Ya sent me a classical poem of her own composition: Oh, since that parting on the bridge by banks of grass, I count each moment of this life an endless waste. I work, I sweep, defer, assent in morning tasks; I weave against the future wedding: it grows late. Tears that are raining as I write, I cannot stop. To think of my whole life's ambition aches my heart I ask when you and I shall meet again, but oh-- The distance between sky and clod, sweet sixteen past!"""	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,unknown	Japan annexation, separated from loved one	group conflict,military defeat,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	japan annexation	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	na	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	jumping,drowning	For four years I had lived my life in silence, in solitude, in independence, for this it seemed to me was virtue, dignity, beauty. And to such a life death was the logical conclusion more beautiful, virtuous, dignified than anything else I could think of. [265] 'But what a terrible thing I have done!' I thought. 'Here I am not alone. It is the love that bound me to my loved one stopped this suicide.	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	na	outgroup	na	na	No evidence	male	x	Evidence against		war	plan,ideation	x	Evidence against	na	no evidence of ailme	x	8	x	"Unquestionably I would be benefited. But I alone. How about others? Ok-Dong-Ya? My grandmother? I seemed to feel somebody pulling at my arm to draw me back. My suicide would break my grandmother's heart. And Ok-Dong-Ya might commit suicide after me. Then there was my father, and Park Soo-San, and many others who were interested in me. Some of these people would go into the state of madness. Now I seemed to see my grandmother standing before me with tears in her eyes. 'No, no, no,' she was hugging me, 'my dear Chung-Pa.' (What could I do?) 'No, my dear grandmother--I would not do it--no--never.' No, a thousand times, I could not. I cried, cried, and fell down there, not knowing what happened to me. For four years I had lived my life in silence, in solitude, in independence, for this it seemed to me was virtue, dignity, beauty. And to such a life death was the logical conclusion more beautiful, virtuous, dignified than anything else I could think of. [265] 'But what a terrible thing I have done!' I thought. 'Here I am not alone. It is the love that bound me to my loved one stopped this suicide. Oh, what a happy and lucky man he is, who has no lover, nor even a friend. He can commit suicide, but I am too closely interwoven with others and full of sense of human duty.' Finally I got up, and resolved to keep on this life. I had discovered that no human being can exist if he has no loved one. This I did not know before. 'I too exist from now on because my grandmother loves me, or I love her, and many others are interested in me. That is it.'"" [p 265] ""After that my feet were light to come back to my room. Iyado was not there. I was pleased to see again my bookcase which now I could take back. At once I opened all the letters in the flower-pocket on the wall, the letters of four years. I planned to read them in order. First, second and third contained not much. Ok-Dong-Ya sent me a classical poem of her own composition: Oh, since that parting on the bridge by banks of grass, I count each moment of this life an endless waste. I work, I sweep, defer, assent in morning tasks; I weave against the future wedding: it grows late. Tears that are raining as I write, I cannot stop. To think of my whole life's ambition aches my heart I ask when you and I shall meet again, but oh-- The distance between sky and clod, sweet sixteen past!"""	x	no	"Tears that are raining as I write, I cannot stop. To think of my whole life's ambition aches my heart I ask when you and I shall meet again, but oh-- The distance between sky and clod, sweet sixteen past!"""	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	didn't commit suicide	x	Evidence for	private	unknown	Evidence against	unknown	first person
144	zgarfield	Case	Korea	Men outnumber women by more than 11 percent, which suggests the emergence of social problems.	No evidence	x 	na	x	na	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	na	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	na		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	unknown	x 	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	na		x 	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		na
144	syme	Case	Korea	Men outnumber women by more than 11 percent, which suggests the emergence of social problems.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	na	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	more often men	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence	unknown	na
145	zgarfield	Cultural model	Korea	Some farm youths experience difficulty in finding available women who are willing to marry future farmers. In the 1980s, it was estimated [p. 82] that about 300 rural Korean farm bachelors even attempted to commit suicide because of their inability to acquire spouses (Chosun Ilbo, 22 Apr. 1989:14; Dong-A Ilbo, 13 May 1989:13).	No evidence	x	young adult,adult	In the 1980s, it was estimated [p. 82] that about 300 rural Korean farm bachelors even attempted to commit suicide because of their inability to acquire spouses 	interpersonal confli,rejection	No evidence	na	Evidence for	In the 1980s, it was estimated [p. 82] that about 300 rural Korean farm bachelors even attempted to commit suicide because of their inability to acquire spouses 	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x 	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	ado_young_adult,adult	social partners	female	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x 		na	x	x	x	x	not stated		x	x	x	Evidence for	na	unknown	Evidence for		secondhand
145	syme	Cultural model	Korea	Some farm youths experience difficulty in finding available women who are willing to marry future farmers. In the 1980s, it was estimated [p. 82] that about 300 rural Korean farm bachelors even attempted to commit suicide because of their inability to acquire spouses (Chosun Ilbo, 22 Apr. 1989:14; Dong-A Ilbo, 13 May 1989:13).	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,unknown	Some farm youths experience difficulty in finding available women who are willing to marry future farmers. In the 1980s, it was estimated [p. 82] that about 300 rural Korean farm bachelors even attempted to commit suicide because of their inability to acquire spouses (Chosun Ilbo, 22 Apr. 1989:14; Dong-A Ilbo, 13 May 1989:13).	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	attempt,completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	low,unknown	na
146	zgarfield	Case	Korea	"A garment shop worker who committed suicide by burning himself on 13 November 1970 staged the most poignant protest against low wages and inhumane wo1970rking conditions. The average working day was fifteen hours long and the wage was equivalent to the price of a cup of coffee at a tearoom in Seoul. Work space was inhumane; the distance between the floor of the second level and the ceiling measured only three feet, so the laborers were unable to stand upright throughout the whole day. Protesting such unbearable working conditions in a garment industry at the P'y[unknown]onghwa market in Seoul, workers attempted to stage demonstrations. As their protests were being suppressed by the police and the factory owner, Ch[unknown]on T'ae-il took the ultimate step, immolating himself ""by pouring gasoline over himself and setting himself on fire in front of policemen and [p. 176] the public, shouting 'We are not machines,' 'Keep the Labor Standard Law,' 'Do not mistreat young girls' "" (Choi 1983:203). This bizarre incident led to the organization of the garment workers' union and promoted workers' solidarity and self-awareness. About seventy Tong-il (Dong-il) women textile workers stood nude, forming a human barricade in front of riot police. Spurred into action by these incidents, many sympathetic intellectuals, students, and church leaders became adamant supporters of labor unions. They established the pattern of ""student-turned-factory-workers,"" often called wijang ch'wi[unknown]op (employment under false credentials), to launch the crusade of the labor movement against the suppressive government labor policy (see Park 1989)."	Evidence for	x	adult	A garment shop worker who committed suicide by burning himself on 13 November 1970 staged the most poignant protest against low wages and inhumane wo1970rking conditions	group conflict	No evidence	na	Evidence for	A garment shop worker who committed suicide by burning himself on 13 November 1970 staged the most poignant protest against low wages and inhumane wo1970rking conditions	approvingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	burning	protest against low wages and inhumane wo1970rking conditions	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	employers	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	physical abuse	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x		unknown	"Ch[unknown]on T'ae-il took the ultimate step, immolating himself ""by pouring gasoline over himself and setting himself on fire in front of policemen and [p. 176] the public, shouting 'We are not machines,' 'Keep the Labor Standard Law,' 'Do not mistreat young girls'"	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	This bizarre incident led to the organization of the garment workers' union and promoted workers' solidarity and self-awareness.	x	Evidence for	public	yes	Evidence against		firsthand
146	syme	Case	Korea	"A garment shop worker who committed suicide by burning himself on 13 November 1970 staged the most poignant protest against low wages and inhumane wo1970rking conditions. The average working day was fifteen hours long and the wage was equivalent to the price of a cup of coffee at a tearoom in Seoul. Work space was inhumane; the distance between the floor of the second level and the ceiling measured only three feet, so the laborers were unable to stand upright throughout the whole day. Protesting such unbearable working conditions in a garment industry at the P'y[unknown]onghwa market in Seoul, workers attempted to stage demonstrations. As their protests were being suppressed by the police and the factory owner, Ch[unknown]on T'ae-il took the ultimate step, immolating himself ""by pouring gasoline over himself and setting himself on fire in front of policemen and [p. 176] the public, shouting 'We are not machines,' 'Keep the Labor Standard Law,' 'Do not mistreat young girls' "" (Choi 1983:203). This bizarre incident led to the organization of the garment workers' union and promoted workers' solidarity and self-awareness. About seventy Tong-il (Dong-il) women textile workers stood nude, forming a human barricade in front of riot police. Spurred into action by these incidents, many sympathetic intellectuals, students, and church leaders became adamant supporters of labor unions. They established the pattern of ""student-turned-factory-workers,"" often called wijang ch'wi[unknown]op (employment under false credentials), to launch the crusade of the labor movement against the suppressive government labor policy (see Park 1989)."	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,unknown	"A garment shop worker who committed suicide by burning himself on 13 November 1970 staged the most poignant protest against low wages and inhumane wo1970rking conditions. The average working day was fifteen hours long and the wage was equivalent to the price of a cup of coffee at a tearoom in Seoul. Work space was inhumane; the distance between the floor of the second level and the ceiling measured only three feet, so the laborers were unable to stand upright throughout the whole day. Protesting such unbearable working conditions in a garment industry at the P'y[unknown]onghwa market in Seoul, workers attempted to stage demonstrations. As their protests were being suppressed by the police and the factory owner, Ch[unknown]on T'ae-il took the ultimate step, immolating himself ""by pouring gasoline over himself and setting himself on fire in front of policemen and [p. 176] the public, shouting 'We are not machines,' 'Keep the Labor Standard Law,' 'Do not mistreat young girls' "" (Choi 1983:203). This bizarre incident led to the organization of the garment workers' union and promoted workers' solidarity and self-awareness. About seventy Tong-il (Dong-il) women textile workers stood nude, forming a human barricade in front of riot police. Spurred into action by these incidents, many sympathetic intellectuals, students, and church leaders became adamant supporters of labor unions. They established the pattern of ""student-turned-factory-workers,"" often called wijang ch'wi[unknown]op (employment under false credentials), to launch the crusade of the labor movement against the suppressive government labor policy (see Park 1989)"	other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"A garment shop worker who committed suicide by burning himself on 13 November 1970 staged the most poignant protest against low wages and inhumane wo1970rking conditions. The average working day was fifteen hours long and the wage was equivalent to the price of a cup of coffee at a tearoom in Seoul. Work space was inhumane; the distance between the floor of the second level and the ceiling measured only three feet, so the laborers were unable to stand upright throughout the whole day. Protesting such unbearable working conditions in a garment industry at the P'y[unknown]onghwa market in Seoul, workers attempted to stage demonstrations. As their protests were being suppressed by the police and the factory owner, Ch[unknown]on T'ae-il took the ultimate step, immolating himself ""by pouring gasoline over himself and setting himself on fire in front of policemen and [p. 176] the public, shouting 'We are not machines,' 'Keep the Labor Standard Law,' 'Do not mistreat young girls' "" (Choi 1983:203). This bizarre incident led to the organization of the garment workers' union and promoted workers' solidarity and self-awareness. About seventy Tong-il (Dong-il) women textile workers stood nude, forming a human barricade in front of riot police. Spurred into action by these incidents, many sympathetic intellectuals, students, and church leaders became adamant supporters of labor unions. They established the pattern of ""student-turned-factory-workers,"" often called wijang ch'wi[unknown]op (employment under false credentials), to launch the crusade of the labor movement against the suppressive government labor policy (see Park 1989)"	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	burning	protest	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	employer	na	na	No evidence	male	employer,police	Evidence against		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	6	x	x	poverty	unknown	"A garment shop worker who committed suicide by burning himself on 13 November 1970 staged the most poignant protest against low wages and inhumane wo1970rking conditions. The average working day was fifteen hours long and the wage was equivalent to the price of a cup of coffee at a tearoom in Seoul. Work space was inhumane; the distance between the floor of the second level and the ceiling measured only three feet, so the laborers were unable to stand upright throughout the whole day. Protesting such unbearable working conditions in a garment industry at the P'y[unknown]onghwa market in Seoul, workers attempted to stage demonstrations. As their protests were being suppressed by the police and the factory owner, Ch[unknown]on T'ae-il took the ultimate step, immolating himself ""by pouring gasoline over himself and setting himself on fire in front of policemen and [p. 176] the public, shouting 'We are not machines,' 'Keep the Labor Standard Law,' 'Do not mistreat young girls' "" (Choi 1983:203). This bizarre incident led to the organization of the garment workers' union and promoted workers' solidarity and self-awareness. About seventy Tong-il (Dong-il) women textile workers stood nude, forming a human barricade in front of riot police. Spurred into action by these incidents, many sympathetic intellectuals, students, and church leaders became adamant supporters of labor unions. They established the pattern of ""student-turned-factory-workers,"" often called wijang ch'wi[unknown]op (employment under false credentials), to launch the crusade of the labor movement against the suppressive government labor policy (see Park 1989)"	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	" This bizarre incident led to the organization of the garment workers' union and promoted workers' solidarity and self-awareness. About seventy Tong-il (Dong-il) women textile workers stood nude, forming a human barricade in front of riot police. Spurred into action by these incidents, many sympathetic intellectuals, students, and church leaders became adamant supporters of labor unions. They established the pattern of ""student-turned-factory-workers,"" often called wijang ch'wi[unknown]op (employment under false credentials), to launch the crusade of the labor movement against the suppressive government labor policy (see Park 1989)"	x	Evidence for	public	unknown	No evidence	low	documented_account
147	zgarfield	Cultural model	Korea	These girl wives are literally the slaves of the household into which they are carried. The mother-in-law rules with a hand of iron and a rod of steel. Many women have two, three, four, or more of these young daughters-in-law under their care, and take peculiar pleasure in making them understand what is what and who is who. Either before marriage or after, it is all the same; the girls are bound by the law of obedience to the mother in-law from the day they enter her home. They are slaves, literally grinding at the mill and doing all sorts of work about the house that would be done by slaves if the family were able to own them. I spoke of the grinding at the mill. It is here as it was in Palestine in the days of our Lord--the women are grinding at the mill. Often when I have seen two of them grinding I have been reminded of that saying of his: 'Two women shall be grinding at the mill; the one shall be taken, and the other left.' Is it any wonder that these young wives often find their burdens greater than they can bear and end the matter by taking their own lives? They go on and on in the hopeless way that lies before them, till at last in their bondage and degradation the blackness of despair settles over them and all hope is forever lost. Then it is that in the quietness of the night many of them steal out to the village well and, standing there at its mouth, doubtless look up into the blue sky and gaze at the twinkling stars and wonder why the great spirits do not hear and answer prayer; they wonder why the days are so long and the nights so dark; why the burdens are so heavy and the way so long and ever without a change; then with a last glance at the bright stars reflected in the deep cold water below--and she is gone! Next morning somebody's daughter-in-law is fished out of the village well, wrapped in a bit of straw matting and laid in a shallow grave on the hillside; and in less than ten days another daughter-in-law has been duly installed in her place.	Evidence for	x	child,young adult	They are slaves, literally grinding at the mill and doing all sorts of work about the house that would be done by slaves if the family were able to own them. 	enslavement_capture	Evidence for	physical abuse	Evidence for	They are slaves, literally grinding at the mill and doing all sorts of work about the house that would be done by slaves if the family were able to own them. 	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	popular	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	jumping	They are slaves, literally grinding at the mill and doing all sorts of work about the house that would be done by slaves if the family were able to own them. 	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	female	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	physical abuse	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		They are slaves, literally grinding at the mill and doing all sorts of work about the house that would be done by slaves if the family were able to own them. 	x		no	They go on and on in the hopeless way that lies before them, till at last in their bondage and degradation the blackness of despair settles over them and all hope is forever lost. 	They go on and on in the hopeless way that lies before them, till at last in their bondage and degradation the blackness of despair settles over them and all hope is forever lost. 	x	Next morning somebody's daughter-in-law is fished out of the village well, wrapped in a bit of straw matting and laid in a shallow grave on the hillside; ---NOT CLEAR IF SUICIDE SPECIFIC	not stated	1	x	"Next morning somebody's daughter-in-law is fished out of the village well, wrapped in a bit of straw matting and laid in a shallow grave on the hillside; and in less than ten days another daughter-in-law has been duly installed in her place.
"	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence for		secondhand
147	syme	Cultural model	Korea	These girl wives are literally the slaves of the household into which they are carried. The mother-in-law rules with a hand of iron and a rod of steel. Many women have two, three, four, or more of these young daughters-in-law under their care, and take peculiar pleasure in making them understand what is what and who is who. Either before marriage or after, it is all the same; the girls are bound by the law of obedience to the mother in-law from the day they enter her home. They are slaves, literally grinding at the mill and doing all sorts of work about the house that would be done by slaves if the family were able to own them. I spoke of the grinding at the mill. It is here as it was in Palestine in the days of our Lord--the women are grinding at the mill. Often when I have seen two of them grinding I have been reminded of that saying of his: 'Two women shall be grinding at the mill; the one shall be taken, and the other left.' Is it any wonder that these young wives often find their burdens greater than they can bear and end the matter by taking their own lives? They go on and on in the hopeless way that lies before them, till at last in their bondage and degradation the blackness of despair settles over them and all hope is forever lost. Then it is that in the quietness of the night many of them steal out to the village well and, standing there at its mouth, doubtless look up into the blue sky and gaze at the twinkling stars and wonder why the great spirits do not hear and answer prayer; they wonder why the days are so long and the nights so dark; why the burdens are so heavy and the way so long and ever without a change; then with a last glance at the bright stars reflected in the deep cold water below--and she is gone! Next morning somebody's daughter-in-law is fished out of the village well, wrapped in a bit of straw matting and laid in a shallow grave on the hillside; and in less than ten days another daughter-in-law has been duly installed in her place.	No evidence	x	child,young adult	These girl wives are literally the slaves of the household into which they are carried. The mother-in-law rules with a hand of iron and a rod of steel. Many women have two, three, four, or more of these young daughters-in-law under their care, and take peculiar pleasure in making them understand what is what and who is who. Either before marriage or after, it is all the same; the girls are bound by the law of obedience to the mother in-law from the day they enter her home. They are slaves, literally grinding at the mill and doing all sorts of work about the house that would be done by slaves if the family were able to own them. I spoke of the grinding at the mill. It is here as it was in Palestine in the days of our Lord--the women are grinding at the mill.	enslavement_capture	Evidence for	other	Evidence for	These girl wives are literally the slaves of the household into which they are carried. The mother-in-law rules with a hand of iron and a rod of steel. Many women have two, three, four, or more of these young daughters-in-law under their care, and take peculiar pleasure in making them understand what is what and who is who.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	unknown	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	drowning	 Then it is that in the quietness of the night many of them steal out to the village well and, standing there at its mouth, doubtless look up into the blue sky and gaze at the twinkling stars and wonder why the great spirits do not hear and answer prayer; they wonder why the days are so long and the nights so dark; why the burdens are so heavy and the way so long and ever without a change; then with a last glance at the bright stars reflected in the deep cold water below--and she is gone! Next morning somebody's daughter-in-law is fished out of the village well, wrapped in a bit of straw matting and laid in a shallow grave on the hillside; and in less than ten days another daughter-in-law has been duly installed in her place.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	mother in law	female	na	No evidence	female	x	Evidence against		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	 Korean minor marriages. Young girls (e.g., 5 years old) are bought and raised in the households of their future husbands, the young boys of wealthy men. Emic or Etic: Unknown	x	x	no	 They go on and on in the hopeless way that lies before them, till at last in their bondage and degradation the blackness of despair settles over them and all hope is forever lost. Then it is that in the quietness of the night many of them steal out to the village well and, standing there at its mouth, doubtless look up into the blue sky and gaze at the twinkling stars and wonder why the great spirits do not hear and answer prayer; they wonder why the days are so long and the nights so dark; why the burdens are so heavy and the way so long and ever without a change; then with a last glance at the bright stars reflected in the deep cold water below--and she is gone! Next morning somebody's daughter-in-law is fished out of the village well, wrapped in a bit of straw matting and laid in a shallow grave on the hillside; and in less than ten days another daughter-in-law has been duly installed in her place.	 They go on and on in the hopeless way that lies before them, till at last in their bondage and degradation the blackness of despair settles over them and all hope is forever lost. Then it is that in the quietness of the night many of them steal out to the village well and, standing there at its mouth, doubtless look up into the blue sky and gaze at the twinkling stars and wonder why the great spirits do not hear and answer prayer; they wonder why the days are so long and the nights so dark; why the burdens are so heavy and the way so long and ever without a change; then with a last glance at the bright stars reflected in the deep cold water below--and she is gone! Next morning somebody's daughter-in-law is fished out of the village well, wrapped in a bit of straw matting and laid in a shallow grave on the hillside; and in less than ten days another daughter-in-law has been duly installed in her place.	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	private	unknown	Evidence for	low	na
164	zgarfield	Case	Santal	As recently as 1944, a case of infanticide led to two Santal women hanging themselves in jail. A young Santal girl, Mundu Marandi, had been married to a Santal and then divorced. She was working as a servant in the house of a Muhammadan of Gopalpur and after some time became pregnant by him. At the village meeting she declined to say who was the father and matters hung fire until the time of birth. In September 1944 she gave birth to a girl and the same night her mother took the baby and after smothering it to death buried it in a small hill near the house. The girl's aunt had advised her to do this and when the matter came to the police both the old women were arrested and lodged in jail. A few days later they hanged themselves by tying their cloths to the bars of the cell. In this case, the shame arising out of their daughter's misconduct with a Muhammadan proved too much for the women and after disposing of the child they killed themselves to avoid the agony of a trial.	No evidence	x	adult	"In this case, the shame arising out of their daughter's misconduct with a Muhammadan proved too much for the women and after disposing of the child they killed themselves to avoid the agony of a trial.
"	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	In September 1944 she gave birth to a girl and the same night her mother took the baby and after smothering it to death buried it in a small hill near the house. The girl's aunt had advised her to do this and when the matter came to the police both the old women were arrested and lodged in jail. A few days later they hanged themselves by tying their cloths to the bars of the cell. 	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	"In this case, the shame arising out of their daughter's misconduct with a Muhammadan proved too much for the women and after disposing of the child they killed themselves to avoid the agony of a trial.
"	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x		unknown	shame	x	x	x	not stated	2	x	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	Evidence against		unknown
164	syme	Case	Santal	As recently as 1944, a case of infanticide led to two Santal women hanging themselves in jail. A young Santal girl, Mundu Marandi, had been married to a Santal and then divorced. She was working as a servant in the house of a Muhammadan of Gopalpur and after some time became pregnant by him. At the village meeting she declined to say who was the father and matters hung fire until the time of birth. In September 1944 she gave birth to a girl and the same night her mother took the baby and after smothering it to death buried it in a small hill near the house. The girl's aunt had advised her to do this and when the matter came to the police both the old women were arrested and lodged in jail. A few days later they hanged themselves by tying their cloths to the bars of the cell. In this case, the shame arising out of their daughter's misconduct with a Muhammadan proved too much for the women and after disposing of the child they killed themselves to avoid the agony of a trial.	Evidence for		elderly	As recently as 1944, a case of infanticide led to two Santal women hanging themselves in jail. A young Santal girl, Mundu Marandi, had been married to a Santal and then divorced. She was working as a servant in the house of a Muhammadan of Gopalpur and after some time became pregnant by him. At the village meeting she declined to say who was the father and matters hung fire until the time of birth. In September 1944 she gave birth to a girl and the same night her mother took the baby and after smothering it to death buried it in a small hill near the house. The girl's aunt had advised her to do this and when the matter came to the police both the old women were arrested and lodged in jail. 	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	In this case, the shame arising out of their daughter's misconduct with a Muhammadan proved too much for the women and after disposing of the child they killed themselves to avoid the agony of a trial.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		perpetrate violence,no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	 In September 1944 she gave birth to a girl and the same night her mother took the baby and after smothering it to death buried it in a small hill near the house.	6	x	x	x	unknown	shame	x	x	x	not stated	2	x	x	x	Evidence for	private	unknown	Evidence for	low,unknown	unknown
165	zgarfield	Case	Santal	"Although the standards of Santal morality allow for a wide variety of sexual behaviour, once those standards have been flouted society can be fiercely intolerant. In the spring of 1939 a daughter of the village priest at Barikul who was married to a ""house son-in-law"" was discovered in the act of having sexual intercourse with a young man of the same village in the adjoining forest. There was some delay in taking action, for the headman from the aggrieved husband's village was asked to attend the council. The elders meanwhile extorted a preliminary fine of ten rupees from the guilty man, at which the young men were enraged. One of them said: ""When we are guilty of small faults you fine us five rupees; in future you should take only five annas from us."" When the council met, the amount of the fine was raised to sixty rupees. This was raised within two hours by the man selling all the livestock that he possessed. Of this sum, five rupees was for the villagers of Barikul, five rupees for the fellow villagers of the aggrieved husband, and the balance was paid to the aggrieved husband to enable him to find another wife. He was also allowed to collect from the home certain things that he had earned while living there--a spade, an axe and the brass cooking utensils. Ordinarily when a home is broken up such things are divided between the husband and the wife. On the same evening a party of the villagers accompanied him to a neighbouring village and completed a marriage ceremony for him with a new wife. Most of the usual formalities were omitted, but a bride price was paid and the marriage sealed. The guilty man was required to take the wife into his own home, but when next day the villagers found that this had not been done they went to the priest's home, where they found the young woman lying on the floor seriously ill. In spite of her condition, they took her down to her paramour's home, only to be met by his irate wife and mother brandishing axes. She was taken back to her own home and the council was again summoned. The elders by now had become seriously alarmed by the possibility of violence, and were relieved rather than otherwise when word was brought [p. 149] that the girl had died. Evidence showed that she had that morning taken poison in the form of oleander seeds, which furnish an easy means of taking poison. Their efforts were now directed towards the necessity for deciding how to report her death. In every village there is a chowkidar, or village policeman, appointed by the government, one of his duties being to report births and deaths. The villagers solemnly debated with him whether they should report the truth and trust to the possibility of bribing the daroga, or police inspector, in order to escape further inquiry, but they decided in the end to suppress the truth and save trouble. The girl was buried deep in the forest without ceremony, and her death was later reported as being due to fever. The council then decided that they would inflict the traditional penalty for adultery on her paramour. This is twofold. Images of the two guilty persons are made and carried through the village; and, in addition, heavy stones are attached to the genitals of the man, who is then made to walk through the village. In this case he took the remedy into his own hands by summarily leaving the village, to which he did not return till the lapse of several months had served to cool the general indignation."	No evidence	x	adult	"In the spring of 1939 a daughter of the village priest at Barikul who was married to a ""house son-in-law"" was discovered in the act of having sexual intercourse with a young man of the same village in the adjoining forest."	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"In the spring of 1939 a daughter of the village priest at Barikul who was married to a ""house son-in-law"" was discovered in the act of having sexual intercourse with a young man of the same village in the adjoining forest."	approvingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for		na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	poisoning	The elders by now had become seriously alarmed by the possibility of violence, and were relieved rather than otherwise when word was brought [p. 149] that the girl had died. Evidence showed that she had that morning taken poison in the form of oleander seeds, which furnish an easy means of taking poison. 	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	male	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	The girl was buried deep in the forest without ceremony, and her death was later reported as being due to fever. --NOT SUICIDE SPECIFIC	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
165	syme	Case	Santal	"Although the standards of Santal morality allow for a wide variety of sexual behaviour, once those standards have been flouted society can be fiercely intolerant. In the spring of 1939 a daughter of the village priest at Barikul who was married to a ""house son-in-law"" was discovered in the act of having sexual intercourse with a young man of the same village in the adjoining forest. There was some delay in taking action, for the headman from the aggrieved husband's village was asked to attend the council. The elders meanwhile extorted a preliminary fine of ten rupees from the guilty man, at which the young men were enraged. One of them said: ""When we are guilty of small faults you fine us five rupees; in future you should take only five annas from us."" When the council met, the amount of the fine was raised to sixty rupees. This was raised within two hours by the man selling all the livestock that he possessed. Of this sum, five rupees was for the villagers of Barikul, five rupees for the fellow villagers of the aggrieved husband, and the balance was paid to the aggrieved husband to enable him to find another wife. He was also allowed to collect from the home certain things that he had earned while living there--a spade, an axe and the brass cooking utensils. Ordinarily when a home is broken up such things are divided between the husband and the wife. On the same evening a party of the villagers accompanied him to a neighbouring village and completed a marriage ceremony for him with a new wife. Most of the usual formalities were omitted, but a bride price was paid and the marriage sealed. The guilty man was required to take the wife into his own home, but when next day the villagers found that this had not been done they went to the priest's home, where they found the young woman lying on the floor seriously ill. In spite of her condition, they took her down to her paramour's home, only to be met by his irate wife and mother brandishing axes. She was taken back to her own home and the council was again summoned. The elders by now had become seriously alarmed by the possibility of violence, and were relieved rather than otherwise when word was brought [p. 149] that the girl had died. Evidence showed that she had that morning taken poison in the form of oleander seeds, which furnish an easy means of taking poison. Their efforts were now directed towards the necessity for deciding how to report her death. In every village there is a chowkidar, or village policeman, appointed by the government, one of his duties being to report births and deaths. The villagers solemnly debated with him whether they should report the truth and trust to the possibility of bribing the daroga, or police inspector, in order to escape further inquiry, but they decided in the end to suppress the truth and save trouble. The girl was buried deep in the forest without ceremony, and her death was later reported as being due to fever. The council then decided that they would inflict the traditional penalty for adultery on her paramour. This is twofold. Images of the two guilty persons are made and carried through the village; and, in addition, heavy stones are attached to the genitals of the man, who is then made to walk through the village. In this case he took the remedy into his own hands by summarily leaving the village, to which he did not return till the lapse of several months had served to cool the general indignation."	No evidence	x	young adult,unknown	man refused to consummate marriage	rejection,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	poisoning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	The girl was buried deep in the forest without ceremony, and her death was later reported as being due to fever.	yes	1	x	 The guilty man was required to take the wife into his own home, but when next day the villagers found that this had not been done they went to the priest's home, where they found the young woman lying on the floor seriously ill. In spite of her condition, they took her down to her paramour's home, only to be met by his irate wife and mother brandishing axes. She was taken back to her own home and the council was again summoned. The elders by now had become seriously alarmed by the possibility of violence, and were relieved rather than otherwise when word was brought [p. 149] that the girl had died. Evidence showed that she had that morning taken poison in the form of oleander seeds, which furnish an easy means of taking poison. Their efforts were now directed towards the necessity for deciding how to report her death. In every village there is a chowkidar, or village policeman, appointed by the government, one of his duties being to report births and deaths. The villagers solemnly debated with him whether they should report the truth and trust to the possibility of bribing the daroga, or police inspector, in order to escape further inquiry, but they decided in the end to suppress the truth and save trouble. The girl was buried deep in the forest without ceremony, and her death was later reported as being due to fever. The council then decided that they would inflict the traditional penalty for adultery on her paramour. This is twofold. Images of the two guilty persons are made and carried through the village; and, in addition, heavy stones are attached to the genitals of the man, who is then made to walk through the village. In this case he took the remedy into his own hands by summarily leaving the village, to which he did not return till the lapse of several months had served to cool the general indignation.	x	No evidence	private	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
166	zgarfield	Case	Santal	But should the boy who proposes, be in real love with the girl, he feels shocked and many such cases end in tragedies. One such concrete case was mentioned to us by some old Santals as having occurred at Jorku, Baripada, where a lad in love with a married girl asked her to leave the village. She having refused, the boy committed suicide by hanging. We closely questioned educated Santals to find out experiences of a deeper character.But should the boy who proposes, be in real love with the girl, he feels shocked and many such cases end in tragedies. One such concrete case was mentioned to us by some old Santals as having occurred at Jorku, Baripada, where a lad in love with a married girl asked her to leave the village. She having refused, the boy committed suicide by hanging. We closely questioned educated Santals to find out experiences of a deeper character.	No evidence	x	young adult	One such concrete case was mentioned to us by some old Santals as having occurred at Jorku, Baripada, where a lad in love with a married girl asked her to leave the village. She having refused, the boy committed suicide by hanging.	rejection	No evidence	na	Evidence for	One such concrete case was mentioned to us by some old Santals as having occurred at Jorku, Baripada, where a lad in love with a married girl asked her to leave the village. She having refused, the boy committed suicide by hanging.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	x 	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	ado_young_adult	potential spouse	female	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		unknown	love	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		secondhand
166	syme	Case	Santal	But should the boy who proposes, be in real love with the girl, he feels shocked and many such cases end in tragedies. One such concrete case was mentioned to us by some old Santals as having occurred at Jorku, Baripada, where a lad in love with a married girl asked her to leave the village. She having refused, the boy committed suicide by hanging. We closely questioned educated Santals to find out experiences of a deeper character.But should the boy who proposes, be in real love with the girl, he feels shocked and many such cases end in tragedies. One such concrete case was mentioned to us by some old Santals as having occurred at Jorku, Baripada, where a lad in love with a married girl asked her to leave the village. She having refused, the boy committed suicide by hanging. We closely questioned educated Santals to find out experiences of a deeper character.	No evidence	x	young adult	She having refused, the boy committed suicide by hanging. We closely questioned educated Santals to find out experiences of a deeper character	rejection,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	na	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	x	no	shock	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	secondhand
167	zgarfield	Case	Taiwan Hokkien	"Are the ancestors capable of such extreme interference only when directly provoked or irritated, or can they be encouraged to punish an affront to some living person? In other words, can they be invoked? It is a touchy subject, but two informants finally confirmed that ancestors in Ch'inan can indeed be called down on the living. One case, confided to me by the Litang-ki , involved the wife of a man in the Li lineage. When, after her husband died, [p. 202] she began to sleep with his elder brother, the rest of the family became very upset by her unseemly behavior. Shortly thereafter, she lost her senses and tried to commit suicide by jumping into the river. At this point, thetang-ki was called in to determine the cause of her insanity. He discovered that some member of the family had burned a charm in the Li ancestral incense pot, asking the ancestors to punish the woman. After thetang-ki burned another charm in the pot, one designed to ""talk peace"" with the ancestors, the woman recovered."	No evidence	x	adult	When, after her husband died, [p. 202] she began to sleep with his elder brother, the rest of the family became very upset by her unseemly behavior. 	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	When, after her husband died, [p. 202] she began to sleep with his elder brother, the rest of the family became very upset by her unseemly behavior. 	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	jumping	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	kin	both	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		firsthand
167	syme	Case	Taiwan Hokkien	"Are the ancestors capable of such extreme interference only when directly provoked or irritated, or can they be encouraged to punish an affront to some living person? In other words, can they be invoked? It is a touchy subject, but two informants finally confirmed that ancestors in Ch'inan can indeed be called down on the living. One case, confided to me by the Litang-ki , involved the wife of a man in the Li lineage. When, after her husband died, [p. 202] she began to sleep with his elder brother, the rest of the family became very upset by her unseemly behavior. Shortly thereafter, she lost her senses and tried to commit suicide by jumping into the river. At this point, thetang-ki was called in to determine the cause of her insanity. He discovered that some member of the family had burned a charm in the Li ancestral incense pot, asking the ancestors to punish the woman. After thetang-ki burned another charm in the pot, one designed to ""talk peace"" with the ancestors, the woman recovered."	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	" One case, confided to me by the Litang-ki , involved the wife of a man in the Li lineage. When, after her husband died, [p. 202] she began to sleep with his elder brother, the rest of the family became very upset by her unseemly behavior. Shortly thereafter, she lost her senses and tried to commit suicide by jumping into the river. At this point, thetang-ki was called in to determine the cause of her insanity. He discovered that some member of the family had burned a charm in the Li ancestral incense pot, asking the ancestors to punish the woman. After thetang-ki burned another charm in the pot, one designed to ""talk peace"" with the ancestors, the woman recovered."	death loved one,accus_commit wrongdo,spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	unknown	Evidence against	drowning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	adult	affines	both	na	No evidence	female	husband 	No evidence		no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	she began to sleep with his elder brother, the rest of the family became very upset by her unseemly behavior. 	6	x	she lost her senses... the woman recovered	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	she lost her senses... insanity...the woman recovered.	"He discovered that some member of the family had burned a charm in the Li ancestral incense pot, asking the ancestors to punish the woman. After thetang-ki burned another charm in the pot, one designed to ""talk peace"" with the ancestors, the woman recovered."	x	No evidence	public	no	Evidence for	unknown	secondhand
168	zgarfield	Case	Taiwan Hokkien	In one case, a young girl committed suicide because of parental objections to her choice of a spouse	No evidence	x	young adult	"In one case, a young girl committed suicide because of parental objections to her choice of a spouse
"	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"In one case, a young girl committed suicide because of parental objections to her choice of a spouse
"	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for		firsthand
168	syme	Case	Taiwan Hokkien	In one case, a young girl committed suicide because of parental objections to her choice of a spouse	No evidence	x	child,young adult,unknown	parental objections to her choice of a spouse	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	parental objections to her choice of a spouse	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
169	zgarfield	Case	Taiwan Hokkien	a married girl returned home after one month of marriage and killed herself, due to her deep disappointment in her husband, who was physically handicapped.	No evidence	x	adult	a married girl returned home after one month of marriage and killed herself, due to her deep disappointment in her husband, who was physically handicapped.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	"killed herself, due to her deep disappointment in her husband, who was physically handicapped.
"	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	male	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	disappointment	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence against		first person
169	syme	Case	Taiwan Hokkien	a married girl returned home after one month of marriage and killed herself, due to her deep disappointment in her husband, who was physically handicapped.	No evidence	x	young adult	a married girl returned home after one month of marriage and killed herself, due to her deep disappointment in her husband, who was physically handicapped.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	na	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	x	na	deep disappointment 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence	unknown	unknown
170	zgarfield	Cultural model	Taiwan Hokkien	Suicide generally is a rare occurrence, but it is used as a last resort by those who cannot move authority. Sometimes it is used as a threat to sway authority, since suicide causes a household to lose face. Because of the threats of suicide or separation, the parental generation is beginning to accomodate itself to the desires of the younger generation.	No evidence	x	young adult	 Suicide generally is a rare occurrence, but it is used as a last resort by those who cannot move authority. Sometimes it is used as a threat to sway authority, since suicide causes a household to lose face. 	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	Sometimes it is used as a threat to sway authority, since suicide causes a household to lose face. 	disapprovingly	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	Sometimes it is used as a threat to sway authority	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	multiple social doma	both	na	No evidence	unknown		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		na
170	syme	Cultural model	Taiwan Hokkien	Suicide generally is a rare occurrence, but it is used as a last resort by those who cannot move authority. Sometimes it is used as a threat to sway authority, since suicide causes a household to lose face. Because of the threats of suicide or separation, the parental generation is beginning to accomodate itself to the desires of the younger generation.	No evidence	x	young adult	Suicide generally is a rare occurrence, but it is used as a last resort by those who cannot move authority. Sometimes it is used as a threat to sway authority, since suicide causes a household to lose face. Because of the threats of suicide or separation, the parental generation is beginning to accomodate itself to the desires of the younger generation.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Suicide generally is a rare occurrence, but it is used as a last resort by those who cannot move authority. Sometimes it is used as a threat to sway authority, since suicide causes a household to lose face. Because of the threats of suicide or separation, the parental generation is beginning to accomodate itself to the desires of the younger generation.	na	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	Sometimes it is used as a threat to sway authority, since suicide causes a household to lose face.	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	unknown	parents	Evidence for		no evidence	threat,attempt,completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	 Because of the threats of suicide or separation, the parental generation is beginning to accomodate itself to the desires of the younger generation.	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
171	zgarfield	Cultural model	Taiwan Hokkien	One may still read stories in the newspapers of the suicide in the city of two lovers whose families forbade their marriage because they bore the same surname.	No evidence	x	young adult	One may still read stories in the newspapers of the suicide in the city of two lovers whose families forbade their marriage because they bore the same surname.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	One may still read stories in the newspapers of the suicide in the city of two lovers whose families forbade their marriage because they bore the same surname.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	both		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	2	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence		secondhand
171	syme	Cultural model	Taiwan Hokkien	One may still read stories in the newspapers of the suicide in the city of two lovers whose families forbade their marriage because they bore the same surname.	No evidence	x	young adult	One may still read stories in the newspapers of the suicide in the city of two lovers whose families forbade their marriage because they bore the same surname.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	One may still read stories in the newspapers of the suicide in the city of two lovers whose families forbade their marriage because they bore the same surname.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	family	both	na	No evidence	both	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	2	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	2	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence against	unknown	documented_account
172	zgarfield	Case	Taiwan Hokkien	One family which left the Settlement recently was formerly very prominent locally, owning and renting farm land and lots along the road which were good sites for shops and businesses. In addition, they paid [p. 69] taxes on some government land, thereby obtaining the right to use and to rent it out. The family head was the most highly educated person in the area--a school principal by profession--and his wealth and prestige made him a well-known figure. His family was not insensible to this. Their high evaluation of their own status was exemplified to their neighbors by the unusually high standar for sons-in-law set by the mother, who eventually married all eight daughters to wealthy men. The two sons took wives who did not get along well, and the mother of the family suffered periods of mental instability; it was not a happy household. Because of their feeling of superiority, they kept their family problems well concealed, and it was a great blow to the family pride when the mother committed suicide. To the family, already internally divided, the loss of face attendant on their tragedy was devastating. Ostensibly to avoid the grandmother's ghost, which frightened the younger children, they began to sell off their land and houses. Two years after the old lady's death, they had sold and divided the joint property. The two branches separated, and now live at opposite ends of Taipei. The house was sold to a stranger, who doubtless regrets his bargain, as the haunted house has been very difficult to rent.	No evidence	x	adult	x	unknown	No evidence		No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		yes	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence against		firsthand
172	syme	Case	Taiwan Hokkien	One family which left the Settlement recently was formerly very prominent locally, owning and renting farm land and lots along the road which were good sites for shops and businesses. In addition, they paid [p. 69] taxes on some government land, thereby obtaining the right to use and to rent it out. The family head was the most highly educated person in the area--a school principal by profession--and his wealth and prestige made him a well-known figure. His family was not insensible to this. Their high evaluation of their own status was exemplified to their neighbors by the unusually high standar for sons-in-law set by the mother, who eventually married all eight daughters to wealthy men. The two sons took wives who did not get along well, and the mother of the family suffered periods of mental instability; it was not a happy household. Because of their feeling of superiority, they kept their family problems well concealed, and it was a great blow to the family pride when the mother committed suicide. To the family, already internally divided, the loss of face attendant on their tragedy was devastating. Ostensibly to avoid the grandmother's ghost, which frightened the younger children, they began to sell off their land and houses. Two years after the old lady's death, they had sold and divided the joint property. The two branches separated, and now live at opposite ends of Taipei. The house was sold to a stranger, who doubtless regrets his bargain, as the haunted house has been very difficult to rent.	No evidence	x	elderly	The family head was the most highly educated person in the area--a school principal by profession--and his wealth and prestige made him a well-known figure. His family was not insensible to this. Their high evaluation of their own status was exemplified to their neighbors by the unusually high standard for sons-in-law set by the mother, who eventually married all eight daughters to wealthy men. The two sons took wives who did not get along well, and the mother of the family suffered periods of mental instability; it was not a happy household. Because of their feeling of superiority, they kept their family problems well concealed, and it was a great blow to the family pride when the mother committed suicide. To the family, already internally divided, the loss of face attendant on their tragedy was devastating. 	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The family head was the most highly educated person in the area--a school principal by profession--and his wealth and prestige made him a well-known figure. His family was not insensible to this. Their high evaluation of their own status was exemplified to their neighbors by the unusually high standar for sons-in-law set by the mother, who eventually married all eight daughters to wealthy men. The two sons took wives who did not get along well, and the mother of the family suffered periods of mental instability; it was not a happy household.	fearfully	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	unknown	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	The two sons took wives who did not get along well, and the mother of the family suffered periods of mental instability; it was not a happy household.	x	no	The two sons took wives who did not get along well, and the mother of the family suffered periods of mental instability; it was not a happy household.	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	To the family, already internally divided, the loss of face attendant on their tragedy was devastating. Ostensibly to avoid the grandmother's ghost, which frightened the younger children, they began to sell off their land and houses. Two years after the old lady's death, they had sold and divided the joint property. The two branches separated, and now live at opposite ends of Taipei. The house was sold to a stranger, who doubtless regrets his bargain, as the haunted house has been very difficult to rent.	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence	high	unknown
173	zgarfield	Case	Taiwan Hokkien	"At intervals along the time stream of one's life are various time spots which bring misfortune to the individual if handles improperly. One term for the time spot is ""giap "" (literally: disaster or knot). Agiap is formed when a man's character meets unfavorably with the character of natural time. If trapped in agiap and unaware of it, a man probably would encounter tragedy. A farmer once told me of another farmer from a nearby village who had committed suicide the day before: ""He drank poisonous pesticide like Cola. He died immediately."" The reason: ""He lost NT $ 4,000 [approximately US $ 105] in gambling the day before and had an argument with his wife about this."" ""Would it not be considered silly,"" I asked, ""to take one's life over such a small amount of money?"" ""No. It is not the matter of money,"" he replied. ""In fact, NT $ 4,000 is nothing. The real cause of his death was probably that he was in agiap . He did not die because of the money or the argument with his wife. He died because he could not solve thegiap . Had he not died over the money yesterday, he would have died for some other problems anyway. It was a bad time in his life. Once he failed to overcome thegiap , he would die anyway."""	No evidence	x	adult	"The reason: ""He lost NT $ 4,000 [approximately US $ 105] in gambling the day before and had an argument with his wife about this."" ""Would it not be considered silly,"" I asked, ""to take one's life over such a small amount of money?"" ""No. It is not the matter of money,"" he replied. ""In fact, NT $ 4,000 is nothing. The real cause of his death was probably that he was in agiap"	resource loss	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	Evidence for	poisoning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		firsthand
173	syme	Case	Taiwan Hokkien	"At intervals along the time stream of one's life are various time spots which bring misfortune to the individual if handles improperly. One term for the time spot is ""giap "" (literally: disaster or knot). Agiap is formed when a man's character meets unfavorably with the character of natural time. If trapped in agiap and unaware of it, a man probably would encounter tragedy. A farmer once told me of another farmer from a nearby village who had committed suicide the day before: ""He drank poisonous pesticide like Cola. He died immediately."" The reason: ""He lost NT $ 4,000 [approximately US $ 105] in gambling the day before and had an argument with his wife about this."" ""Would it not be considered silly,"" I asked, ""to take one's life over such a small amount of money?"" ""No. It is not the matter of money,"" he replied. ""In fact, NT $ 4,000 is nothing. The real cause of his death was probably that he was in agiap . He did not die because of the money or the argument with his wife. He died because he could not solve thegiap . Had he not died over the money yesterday, he would have died for some other problems anyway. It was a bad time in his life. Once he failed to overcome thegiap , he would die anyway."""	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	"At intervals along the time stream of one's life are various time spots which bring misfortune to the individual if handles improperly. One term for the time spot is ""giap "" (literally: disaster or knot). Agiap is formed when a man's character meets unfavorably with the character of natural time. If trapped in agiap and unaware of it, a man probably would encounter tragedy. A farmer once told me of another farmer from a nearby village who had committed suicide the day before: ""He drank poisonous pesticide like Cola. He died immediately."" The reason: ""He lost NT $ 4,000 [approximately US $ 105] in gambling the day before and had an argument with his wife about this."" ""Would it not be considered silly,"" I asked, ""to take one's life over such a small amount of money?"" ""No. It is not the matter of money,"" he replied. ""In fact, NT $ 4,000 is nothing. The real cause of his death was probably that he was in agiap . He did not die because of the money or the argument with his wife. He died because he could not solve thegiap . Had he not died over the money yesterday, he would have died for some other problems anyway. It was a bad time in his life. Once he failed to overcome thegiap , he would die anyway."""	interpersonal confli,resource loss,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	" The reason: ""He lost NT $ 4,000 [approximately US $ 105] in gambling the day before and had an argument with his wife about this."" ""Would it not be considered silly,"" I asked, ""to take one's life over such a small amount of money?"" ""No. It is not the matter of money,"" he replied. ""In fact, NT $ 4,000 is nothing. "	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	poisoning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	adult	wife	female	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	gambling	4	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	secondhand
174	zgarfield	Case	Taiwan Hokkien	Not long after the election, tragedy struck the Hsieh family for in June 1958 County Assembly Speaker Hsieh committed suicide at the age of 53. Originally the Hsieh had been quite wealthy, owning 300 hectares of land. But land reform substantially reduced their wealth and Hsieh, an M.D. who did not practice, had no special income. Apparently he depended upon his reputation and prestige rather than money to win election both as County Assemblyman and as Speaker.	No evidence	x	adult	 But land reform substantially reduced their wealth and Hsieh, an M.D. who did not practice, had no special income.	loss social position,resource loss	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	53	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
174	syme	Case	Taiwan Hokkien	Not long after the election, tragedy struck the Hsieh family for in June 1958 County Assembly Speaker Hsieh committed suicide at the age of 53. Originally the Hsieh had been quite wealthy, owning 300 hectares of land. But land reform substantially reduced their wealth and Hsieh, an M.D. who did not practice, had no special income. Apparently he depended upon his reputation and prestige rather than money to win election both as County Assemblyman and as Speaker.	No evidence	x	adult	Not long after the election, tragedy struck the Hsieh family for in June 1958 County Assembly Speaker Hsieh committed suicide at the age of 53. Originally the Hsieh had been quite wealthy, owning 300 hectares of land. But land reform substantially reduced their wealth and Hsieh, an M.D. who did not practice, had no special income. Apparently he depended upon his reputation and prestige rather than money to win election both as County Assemblyman and as Speaker.	loss social position,resource loss	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	53	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x		not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence	high,unknown	unknown
175	zgarfield	Case	Taiwan Hokkien	Among this younger generation, the fate of one young woman illustrates the morals of the age and the tensions that could arise between proud members of the same household. From a collateral branch of the matriarch's own family, young Miss Yang (1869-1895)24 had been betrothed to Ch'ao-tung's eldest son. When death removed the young man in 1884, Miss Yang considered her engagement binding, though the marriage had not yet taken place. Following the highest canons of wifely fidelity, she chose the life of a model Confucian widow, a virgin bride and virtual recluse. Residing in thekung-pao-ti , she spent [p. 222] her days in fasts and prayers and emerged from her room only long enough to pay the obligatory morning and evening calls on her parents-in-law. Only the crisis of 1895 broke her routine. As Ch'ao-tung's household prepared for flight, Miss Yang was found one day dangling from the rafters of her room, joined in death by a faithful woman servant. The roots of this unhappy dnouement are variously described. The Lins's gentry friend, Wu Te-kung, counted Miss Yang as a moral paragon and included her in his roster of the model women of the district, explaining that she had feared for her virginity during the dangerous flight. Family and village gossip, on the other hand, holds that her suicide was not voluntary but that she was pushed into it when Ch'ao-tung and Mrs. Yang sent her a white scarf with which to hang herself (according to some), or (according to others) a choice of two scarves, one red for life, the other white for purity and death.25	No evidence	x	adult	When death removed the young man in 1884, Miss Yang considered her engagement binding, though the marriage had not yet taken place. Following the highest canons of wifely fidelity, she chose the life of a model Confucian widow, a virgin bride and virtual recluse. Residing in thekung-pao-ti , she spent [p. 222] her days in fasts and prayers and emerged from her room only long enough to pay the obligatory morning and evening calls on her parents-in-law. Only the crisis of 1895 broke her routine. As Ch'ao-tung's household prepared for flight, Miss Yang was found one day dangling from the rafters of her room, joined in death by a faithful woman servant.	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for		completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	2 	x	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	Evidence against		secondhand
175	syme	Case	Taiwan Hokkien	Among this younger generation, the fate of one young woman illustrates the morals of the age and the tensions that could arise between proud members of the same household. From a collateral branch of the matriarch's own family, young Miss Yang (1869-1895)24 had been betrothed to Ch'ao-tung's eldest son. When death removed the young man in 1884, Miss Yang considered her engagement binding, though the marriage had not yet taken place. Following the highest canons of wifely fidelity, she chose the life of a model Confucian widow, a virgin bride and virtual recluse. Residing in thekung-pao-ti , she spent [p. 222] her days in fasts and prayers and emerged from her room only long enough to pay the obligatory morning and evening calls on her parents-in-law. Only the crisis of 1895 broke her routine. As Ch'ao-tung's household prepared for flight, Miss Yang was found one day dangling from the rafters of her room, joined in death by a faithful woman servant. The roots of this unhappy dnouement are variously described. The Lins's gentry friend, Wu Te-kung, counted Miss Yang as a moral paragon and included her in his roster of the model women of the district, explaining that she had feared for her virginity during the dangerous flight. Family and village gossip, on the other hand, holds that her suicide was not voluntary but that she was pushed into it when Ch'ao-tung and Mrs. Yang sent her a white scarf with which to hang herself (according to some), or (according to others) a choice of two scarves, one red for life, the other white for purity and death.25	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	Only the crisis of 1895 broke her routine. As Ch'ao-tung's household prepared for flight, Miss Yang was found one day dangling from the rafters of her room, joined in death by a faithful woman servant. The roots of this unhappy dnouement are variously described. The Lins's gentry friend, Wu Te-kung, counted Miss Yang as a moral paragon and included her in his roster of the model women of the district, explaining that she had feared for her virginity during the dangerous flight. Family and village gossip, on the other hand, holds that her suicide was not voluntary but that she was pushed into it when Ch'ao-tung and Mrs. Yang sent her a white scarf with which to hang herself (according to some), or (according to others) a choice of two scarves, one red for life, the other white for purity and death.25	group conflict,military defeat	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Among this younger generation, the fate of one young woman illustrates the morals of the age and the tensions that could arise between proud members of the same household. From a collateral branch of the matriarch's own family, young Miss Yang (1869-1895)24 had been betrothed to Ch'ao-tung's eldest son. When death removed the young man in 1884, Miss Yang considered her engagement binding, though the marriage had not yet taken place.  As Ch'ao-tung's household prepared for flight, Miss Yang was found one day dangling from the rafters of her room, joined in death by a faithful woman servant. The roots of this unhappy dnouement are variously described. The Lins's gentry friend, Wu Te-kung, counted Miss Yang as a moral paragon and included her in his roster of the model women of the district, explaining that she had feared for her virginity during the dangerous flight. Family and village gossip, on the other hand, holds that her suicide was not voluntary but that she was pushed into it when Ch'ao-tung and Mrs. Yang sent her a white scarf with which to hang herself (according to some), or (according to others) a choice of two scarves, one red for life, the other white for purity and death.25	approvingly,unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	hanging	 The roots of this unhappy dnouement are variously described. The Lins's gentry friend, Wu Te-kung, counted Miss Yang as a moral paragon and included her in his roster of the model women of the district, explaining that she had feared for her virginity during the dangerous flight. Family and village gossip, on the other hand, holds that her suicide was not voluntary but that she was pushed into it when Ch'ao-tung and Mrs. Yang sent her a white scarf with which to hang herself (according to some), or (according to others) a choice of two scarves, one red for life, the other white for purity and death.25	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	outgroup	na	na	No evidence	female	x	Evidence against		death of a loved one	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	Following the highest canons of wifely fidelity, she chose the life of a model Confucian widow, a virgin bride and virtual recluse. Residing in thekung-pao-ti , she spent [p. 222] her days in fasts and prayers and emerged from her room only long enough to pay the obligatory morning and evening calls on her parents-in-law. Only the crisis of 1895 broke her routine.	5	x	x	servant followed	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	2	x	x	x	Evidence for	private	unknown	Evidence for	high,unknown	unknown
176	zgarfield	Cultural model	Taiwan Hokkien	desperate maid servants committed suicide and then haunted the mansion as ghosts.	No evidence	desperate maid servants committed suicide and then haunted the mansion as ghosts.	adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	social superior	unknown	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x			x		unknown	desperate 	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		na
176	syme	Cultural model	Taiwan Hokkien	desperate maid servants committed suicide and then haunted the mansion as ghosts.	No evidence	haunt adversaries	unknown	 desperate maid servants committed suicide and then haunted the mansion as ghosts.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 desperate maid servants committed suicide and then haunted the mansion as ghosts.	fearfully	emic	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	employers	na	na	No evidence	female	employers	Evidence against		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	desperate	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	 desperate maid servants committed suicide and then haunted the mansion as ghosts.	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	low	na
177	zgarfield	Cultural model	Taiwan Hokkien	Statistics on women's suicide rates in Taiwan early in this century show the probability of suicide to be highest among women in the 20 to 24 age bracket (presumably suffering the alienation and hardsnips that afflicted young Chinese brides in their husband's natal house olds)	Evidence for	x	young adult,adult	presumably suffering the alienation and hardsnips that afflicted young Chinese brides in their husband's natal house olds	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	presumably suffering the alienation and hardsnips that afflicted young Chinese brides in their husband's natal house olds	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	kin	unknown	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	20-24	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	suffering	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		documented_account
177	syme	Cultural model	Taiwan Hokkien	Statistics on women's suicide rates in Taiwan early in this century show the probability of suicide to be highest among women in the 20 to 24 age bracket (presumably suffering the alienation and hardsnips that afflicted young Chinese brides in their husband's natal house olds)	No evidence	x	young adult	(presumably suffering the alienation and hardships that afflicted young Chinese brides in their husband's natal households)	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	affines	na	na	No evidence	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	20-24	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	na
178	zgarfield	Cultural model	Taiwan Hokkien	In despair over her powerlessness or in a fit of revengeful fury at her fickle son, the aging mother contemplates, threatens, and in some cases commits suicide.	No evidence	x	adult,elderly	In despair over her powerlessness or in a fit of revengeful fury at her fickle son, the aging mother contemplates, threatens, and in some cases commits suicide.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	In despair over her powerlessness or in a fit of revengeful fury at her fickle son, the aging mother contemplates, threatens, and in some cases commits suicide.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	offspring	male	na	No evidence	female	son	Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		yes	despair	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	na	unknown	Evidence against		secondhand
178	syme	Cultural model	Taiwan Hokkien	In despair over her powerlessness or in a fit of revengeful fury at her fickle son, the aging mother contemplates, threatens, and in some cases commits suicide.	No evidence	x	adult,elderly	 In despair over her powerlessness or in a fit of revengeful fury at her fickle son, the aging mother contemplates, threatens, and in some cases commits suicide.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 In despair over her powerlessness or in a fit of revengeful fury at her fickle son, the aging mother contemplates, threatens, and in some cases commits suicide.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	unknown	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for		Evidence for	ado_young_adult,adult	son	male	na	No evidence	female	son	Evidence for		no evidence	threat,ideation,completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	 In despair over her powerlessness or in a fit of revengeful fury 	 In despair over her powerlessness or in a fit of revengeful fury at her fickle son, the aging mother contemplates, threatens, and in some cases commits suicide.	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
179	zgarfield	Cultural model	Taiwan Hokkien	The more common image of the widow is that of the young woman who is forced to remarry by her husband's brothers, who want control of her share of the estate. When resistance fails, she commits suicide and takes her revenge as a ghost who drives her brothers-in-law mad.	No evidence	When resistance fails, she commits suicide and takes her revenge as a ghost who drives her brothers-in-law mad.	adult	The more common image of the widow is that of the young woman who is forced to remarry by her husband's brothers, who want control of her share of the estate. When resistance fails, she commits suicide and takes her revenge as a ghost who drives her brothers-in-law mad.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The more common image of the widow is that of the young woman who is forced to remarry by her husband's brothers, who want control of her share of the estate. When resistance fails, she commits suicide and takes her revenge as a ghost who drives her brothers-in-law mad.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for		popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	When resistance fails, she commits suicide and takes her revenge as a ghost who drives her brothers-in-law mad.	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	kin	male	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	death of a loved one	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence		secondhand
179	syme	Cultural model	Taiwan Hokkien	The more common image of the widow is that of the young woman who is forced to remarry by her husband's brothers, who want control of her share of the estate. When resistance fails, she commits suicide and takes her revenge as a ghost who drives her brothers-in-law mad.	No evidence	x	unknown	The more common image of the widow is that of the young woman who is forced to remarry by her husband's brothers, who want control of her share of the estate. When resistance fails, she commits suicide and takes her revenge as a ghost who drives her brothers-in-law mad.	interpersonal confli,resource loss,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The more common image of the widow is that of the young woman who is forced to remarry by her husband's brothers, who want control of her share of the estate. When resistance fails, she commits suicide and takes her revenge as a ghost who drives her brothers-in-law mad.	unknown,fearfully	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	When resistance fails, she commits suicide and takes her revenge as a ghost who drives her brothers-in-law mad.	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	brother in law/husband	male	na	No evidence	female	brother in law/husband	Evidence for			completion	x		na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	takes her revenge as a ghost who drives her brothers-in-law mad.	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
180	zgarfield	Cultural model	Taiwan Hokkien	To village women who have experienced empty stomachs and sewed patches on patches, disasters of one sort or another seem likely, and their resources for coping with them are very limited. They depend primarily on their sons, for in times of crisis it is well known that sons are more dependable than husbands. Any threat to a woman's relations with her son strikes deep. The [suicide] rate then drops sharply and steadily until the fortieth year, when it rises again for women between forty and fifty, reflecting the crises created by marriages that intrude strange women into the beds and affections of sons. In the first two decades of the century, the hazardous forties were followed by a gradual decline in the suicide rate as women entered old age and settled down as respected grandmothers; but by 1930, the fifties were showing themselves to be nearly as hazardous as the forties. This rise probably reflects both the later age of marriage and the increasing difficulty the senior generations were having in controlling their offspring.	No evidence	x	adult	The [suicide] rate then drops sharply and steadily until the fortieth year, when it rises again for women between forty and fifty, reflecting the crises created by marriages that intrude strange women into the beds and affections of sons. In the first two decades of the century, the hazardous forties were followed by a gradual decline in the suicide rate as women entered old age and settled down as respected grandmothers; but by 1930, the fifties were showing themselves to be nearly as hazardous as the forties. 	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The [suicide] rate then drops sharply and steadily until the fortieth year, when it rises again for women between forty and fifty, reflecting the crises created by marriages that intrude strange women into the beds and affections of sons.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	offspring	male	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		yes	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		secondhand
180	syme	Cultural model	Taiwan Hokkien	To village women who have experienced empty stomachs and sewed patches on patches, disasters of one sort or another seem likely, and their resources for coping with them are very limited. They depend primarily on their sons, for in times of crisis it is well known that sons are more dependable than husbands. Any threat to a woman's relations with her son strikes deep. The [suicide] rate then drops sharply and steadily until the fortieth year, when it rises again for women between forty and fifty, reflecting the crises created by marriages that intrude strange women into the beds and affections of sons. In the first two decades of the century, the hazardous forties were followed by a gradual decline in the suicide rate as women entered old age and settled down as respected grandmothers; but by 1930, the fifties were showing themselves to be nearly as hazardous as the forties. This rise probably reflects both the later age of marriage and the increasing difficulty the senior generations were having in controlling their offspring.	No evidence	x	adult,elderly	They depend primarily on their sons, for in times of crisis it is well known that sons are more dependable than husbands. Any threat to a woman's relations with her son strikes deep. The [suicide] rate then drops sharply and steadily until the fortieth year, when it rises again for women between forty and fifty, reflecting the crises created by marriages that intrude strange women into the beds and affections of sons. 	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	To village women who have experienced empty stomachs and sewed patches on patches, disasters of one sort or another seem likely, and their resources for coping with them are very limited. They depend primarily on their sons, for in times of crisis it is well known that sons are more dependable than husbands. Any threat to a woman's relations with her son strikes deep. The [suicide] rate then drops sharply and steadily until the fortieth year, when it rises again for women between forty and fifty, reflecting the crises created by marriages that intrude strange women into the beds and affections of sons.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	ado_young_adult,adult	son	male	na	No evidence	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	40-60	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	no	" The [suicide] rate then drops sharply and steadily until the fortieth year, when it rises again for women between forty and fifty, reflecting the crises created by marriages that intrude strange women into the beds and affections of sons.

jealousy "	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
181	zgarfield	Cultural model	Taiwan Hokkien	Young women in their early and middle twenties, despairing at the cruelties of their mothers-in-law and desirous of revenge (the ghost of a suicide is believed to be particularly powerful and absolutely determined to bring tragedy to the people responsible), drink poison or throw themselves off bridges or under trains, producing the highest rate of suicide for any age group.	Evidence for	x	young adult,adult	"Young women in their early and middle twenties, despairing at the cruelties of their mothers-in-law and desirous of revenge (the ghost of a suicide is believed to be particularly powerful and absolutely determined to bring tragedy to the people responsible), drink poison or throw themselves off bridges or under trains, producing the highest rate of suicide for any age group.
"	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Young women in their early and middle twenties, despairing at the cruelties of their mothers-in-law and desirous of revenge (the ghost of a suicide is believed to be particularly powerful and absolutely determined to bring tragedy to the people responsible), drink poison or throw themselves off bridges or under trains, producing the highest rate of suicide for any age group.
"	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	poisoning,jumping,jump_train	Young women in their early and middle twenties, despairing at the cruelties of their mothers-in-law and desirous of revenge	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	female	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	despairing	Young women in their early and middle twenties, despairing at the cruelties of their mothers-in-law and desirous of revenge	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence		unknown
181	syme	Cultural model	Taiwan Hokkien	Young women in their early and middle twenties, despairing at the cruelties of their mothers-in-law and desirous of revenge (the ghost of a suicide is believed to be particularly powerful and absolutely determined to bring tragedy to the people responsible), drink poison or throw themselves off bridges or under trains, producing the highest rate of suicide for any age group.	No evidence	haunt adversaries	young adult	Young women in their early and middle twenties, despairing at the cruelties of their mothers-in-law and desirous of revenge 	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Young women in their early and middle twenties, despairing at the cruelties of their mothers-in-law and desirous of revenge .	fearfully	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	unknown	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	poisoning,jumping,jump_train	and desirous of revenge (the ghost of a suicide is believed to be particularly powerful and absolutely determined to bring tragedy to the people responsible),	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult,elder	mother in law	female	na	No evidence	female	mother in law	No evidence		no evidence	completion	20-25	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	despairing at the cruelties of their mothers-in-law and desirous of revenge 	despair	x	x	not stated	1	x	(the ghost of a suicide is believed to be particularly powerful and absolutely determined to bring tragedy to the people responsible)	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
182	zgarfield	Case	Taiwan Hokkien	"Except on the coldest days and for a few hours each night, the doors of the houses in Peihotien are never closed. A closed door in the daytime would arouse concern or suspicion and would surely bring a group of neighbors to inquire as to what the trouble might be. Few strangers come to Peihotien and when they do, they nearly always send one of the swarming children to run ahead and announce to Mr. Lim or Mr. Ong that he has a visitor. A neighbor looking for Mr. Lim or Mr. Ong simply walks into the house calling his name, and if Mr. Lim or Mr. Ong does not answer, he walks on out again. An intimate friend or relative walks into the house even more casually, wandering through the passageways until he finds someone, courteously coughing before bushing aside the curtains of a bedroom door in his search. Until I became familiar with the faces of the intimates of the Lim family and with the villagers who dropped in there frequently, I had the uncomfortable sensation that the narrow passageways of our house were thoroughfares at least as public as the lanes outside. The situation was even more confusing to me as a newcomer because the number of people actually living in the house varied from week to week. During the harvest season, gangs of workmen came up from the south to cut the rice and stayed in the house for the three or four days it took to harvest the Lim fields. When Lim A-bok strained his back, a young relative lived in the house and helped with the field work. At least twice an old woman distantly related through Lim Han-ci's wife stayed in the house for several weeks while the Lims tried to patch up [p. 100] her quarrel with her daughter. Other relatives came to stay for a few nights or a few months. When Tan A-hong appeared with her five-year-old daughter, I had become so used to the stream of visitors that I didn't even bother to ask who she was for a week or so. I knew, of course, her surname, but when I casually asked A-bok's giddy wife if she was a relative, I dismissed the confused yes-and-no of her answer as just one more sample of A-ki's disorderly thoughts. However, as Tan A-hong's visit lengthened, we noticed that she consistently used kinship terms when addressing the Lims. She was visited frequently by an unusually attractive young woman who was introduced as her daughter and who was treated by the Lims as a much beloved family member. It did not take many questions to discover that Tan A-hong was the adopted daughter Lim Han-ci had given to another family when his own daughter was returned by her foster family. Tan A-hong remained in our house for several months and when one of the small village houses owned by the Lims became vacant, she moved into it, becoming a resident of Peihotien. By Taiwanese standards, Lim Han-ci had been generous in his treatment of Tan A-hong. Since she was ""only an adopted daughter,"" he would have been justified in selling her to the highest bidder when he found he no longer had reason to keep her and could no longer afford to keep her. The highest bidders in those days were dealers who bought attractive female children to raise as prostitutes, wealthy families who wanted slaves, or prostitutes who adopted daughters to raise in their profession as support for their own old age. Instead of this, Lim Han-ci arranged for A-hong's future in the way he would have arranged the future of a daughter born to him: he found a family who wished to adopt a girl as their son's future wife. A-hong was not sweettempered, even as a girl. The family who adopted her evidently had second thoughts about marrying her to their son. She was married out of the family. At least A-hong claims that her exit from the Tan family was by way of a respectable marriage, but the facts of her subsequent career and her retention of the Tan surname cast some doubt on this. The marriage, if it existed, was brief, for Tan A-hong soon moved to southern Taiwan where she earned her living as a prostitute. It was at this time that she further altered her name to include the character for phoenix (hong ) which is often found in the professional names of women who follow her calling. Legally and socially, the obligations of the Lims toward A-hong [p. 101] ceased when she entered the family of Tan. Even though she had been an adopted daughter in the Lim house for ten years, she had been sent with all propriety to the home of her future husband. If she left that family as a respectable bride, she should have brought her troubles back to them, or even to her natal family if she knew their whereabouts. Instead, A-hong always brought her problems home to the Lims. A quarrel with the man who was currently supporting her was grounds for a week's vacation at the Lim's. If she had trouble finding a new ""friend,"" she stayed for awhile with the Lims. Her eldest daughter, Chun-ieng, spent as much of her childhood under the care of Lim Han-ci's wife and Lim A-pou as she did with her mother. Why Tan A-hong felt she could make such demands on the family, and why they allowed it, is a puzzle, but she continues to do so to this day. Chun-ieng was born during the war. Many children were sent into the country during those years to protect them from the American bombings and so Chun-ieng, of course, was sent to the Lims. A-hong's second child was a son. When he was five or six, A-hong was living with a man. apparently not his father, in Tainan. They quarreled one evening and in a fit of temper she ran out, leaving him with the boy. She stayed away for nearly two weeks, during which time the boy contracted measles. A-hong's gentleman friend did his best at an unfamiliar job, but when A-hong recovered her good humor and returned, her son was dead. Sometime later she adopted a daughter who succumbed to a similar disease before she was old enough to walk. Finally, in A-hong's fortieth year, when her fading looks had forced her to work in the least desirable brothels of Tainan, she gave birth to her daughter, Chai-ngo. When I met Tan A-hong, it was as hard to believe that she was only forty-five as it was to believe that she had once been a very pretty woman. She is quite short, fine boned, with delicate wrists and ankles, but now her back is stooped and her shoulders hunched, perhaps, as many people suggest, from the long hours she spends at the gambling tables. Her face is beautifully proportioned with a small, thin nose, high cheek bones, fairly large eyes and a fine wide brow. But now, her cheeks are sunken and lined, and her high cheek bones suggest too strongly the skeleton that lies beneath the sallow, muddy skin. Her hair is no longer thick, but it is still unusually fine in texture. She combs it so rarely that its quality goes unnoticed. She dresses in the fashion of the poorest village wife, sloppily and with not a few greasy [p. 102] spots on her skirt--but the sweater she throws over her shoulders is often imported. Her voice is shrill or gives that impression because she is nearly always scolding or complaining about something, but one can imagine that it was once a light feminine soprano. Tan A-hong had not had any permanent ""friends"" for some time before Chai-ngo was born, and after her birth she found it more and more difficult to make a living. Chun-ieng was sent out to work. She was nineteen when I first met her and had been working as a prostitute for four years. To me she seemed more like a sophisticated American teenager than the timid giggling village girls her age. She was considerably less curious about us then were her contemporaries in the village, but far less hesitant about satisfying her curiosity. The village girls went into paroxysms of shyness if I asked them a question, but Chun-ieng howled at my accent and then good-humoredly tried to answer my questions. I rarely saw her interacting with anyone her own age in the village, but she joins the games of small children with an abandon and glee that would bring blushes of shame to the cheeks of her stodgy peers. The childish pleasure she finds in cooking, in feeding the family's dog, or in watching a newly hatched flock of ducks is both unaffected and pathetic. When she is in the village, Chun-ieng dresses soberly and wears little or no make-up, but she is undeniably different from the other girls her age. Her upright bearing, her poise in conversation, and even her smooth, pale skin are out of place in the muddy lanes and the coarse brick farmhouses. She is tall, unlike her mother, but her bones have the same delicacy. Her face is long and thin, giving her high cheekbones the drama that her mother's lack. Her eyes are a bit too small, but she shapes her eyebrows carefully to minimize the defect. She doesn't cut her fine black hair, nor allow it to be frizzed by cheap permanents. Often in the village she pulls it back into a pony tail, giving her an innocent Alice-in-Wonderland look. She loves to gossip and has great skill in spinning a simple anecdote into an intriguing story. Without slipping into vulgarity, she can entertain the rather staid women of the Lim household with endless stories about her work--she can even keep Lim A-pou sitting for awhile. There is always more laughter in the house when Chun-ieng is home. Prostitutes in Peihotien occupy a rather ambiguous position, resembling in no way the status forced on a prostitute, retired or active, in an American small town. They are considered ""more interesting"" [p. 103] than other women of their age and income, but judgments about their morality or respectability are not based on their profession. Too many village girls have had to ""go out to work"" to support aging parents or young siblings. In recent years, there has only been one girl in the area who entered a brothel by choice, lured by the fine clothes and exciting life. More commonly, women become prostitutes because they were raised for that purpose, or because their family is desperately in need of the income. The villagers are not inclined to think of these girls as martyrs since Chinese children are expected to make great sacrifices for their parents, but they are not likely to criticize them either. On the contrary, most villagers assume a girl has amply repaid the debt she owes her parents for raising her when she obeys their command to become a prostitute--repaid it more fully than the daughter who remains at home can ever hope to. Parents can nearly always count on the support of village opinion in deciding the future of their daughter unless that daughter has supported the family for several years by prostitution. By giving up her youth, the young prostitute has gained a certain amount of control over her future. In the village her respectability depends upon how careful she is to walk within the paths of traditional morality when she is home for a few days each month, how compliant she is in turning over the majority of her earnings to her parents, and how cautious she is with village males. A prostitute who carries on professional activities within the village is in deep trouble. If her relatives are not aware of her indiscretion, they will be told, and that is usually enough. It is a small community. No one in the Lim family tried to conceal from us Tan A-hong's former occupation or the source of Chun-ieng's present earnings. They are not callous about Chun-ieng's fate, but they also see her soft fingers resting next to their scarred, calloused hands, her delicate silk dresses hanging beside their coarse, shapeless working clothes, her closed bedroom door when they come in after three hours of early morning weeding in the fields. About her future they feel pity, but the life of a woman in a farm family is not easy either. In Chun-ieng's difficulties with her mother, however, she has the family's complete sympathy. They may chide her occasionally, or remind her of her mother's seniority, but their words lack conviction. Tan A-hong's outrageous behavior toward her daughter would challenge the beliefs of the most adamant proponent of filial piety. In all fairness, I must [p. 104] admit at this point to a strong prejudice against Tan A-hong. I could find in her no redeeming qualities. Her life has been hard and full of frustrations, but it was a way of life she chose in preference to that of marriage. She did not allow her daughter that choice. Tan A-hong's latest return to Peihotien was primarily at her daughter's urging. To bring her mother north, Chun-ieng gave up a good, secure income in one of the best houses in Tainan and complicated a personal love affair that mattered a great deal to her. Her motives need little explanation: A-hong, as with many women her age and, in particular, women who have been prostitutes, is a habitual gambler. She gambles as long as she can find money and players. When she runs out of money, she sells anything at hand, borrows from anyone foolish enough to loan, and begs from those who refuse loans. Chun-ieng's beauty and vivacious personality provided her with a very good income, but her mother was spending the majority of it in the expensive twenty-four-hour gambling houses of Tainan. Chun-ieng had trouble meeting ordinary living expenses. So, she persuaded her mother to sell her small house, invested as much of the money as she could get away from her into gold (the landless person's only insurance against inflation), and moved her to Peihotien. While Chun-ieng went on to Taipei to find work, her mother searched out the small gambling dens of Hotien. Their status as guests in the Lim house had no effect on the quarrels between A-hong and Chun-ieng. They were loud and bitter. One night when Chun-ieng returned from Taipei after an absence of a week, she was greeted with the news that her mother had lost over NT$700 in two nights of gambling--nearly a week's income for Chun-ieng and almost a month's income for the average family. Chun-ieng tactlessly demanded that her mother turn over the remainder of the money she had received from the sale of the house. A-hong, of course, refused. ""This is my money. Why should I give it to you? Sure, I gamble, but what about you? Don't you ever gamble? You say you want to buy gold with it! Huh! You just want to spend it. You have your own money if you want to buy gold, and you already have plenty of gold hidden away, too. I want to keep my money. Maybe I'll buy some gold, too."" Chun-ieng answered her wearily, ""All right, I'm not going to argue with you. I'm too tired. I just wanted to say something about it so that people would know I tried and would not blame me."" [p. 105] Although A-hong expects her daughter to provide for her as for a child, she resents being treated as a child. Chun-ieng's words angered her. ""How can you be so shameless. I know what you are telling people--you are telling them I lost lots of money in Tainan and then sold your clothes and your gold to get more. You are shameless. You know how little money you gave me. You didn't give me all the money you earned so I had to take it. Aren't you ashamed to tell all those lies?"" This touched a sore spot in Chun-ieng. She wants very much to be considered a proper filial daughter and her mother accused her of withholding her earnings, a most unfilial act. Chun-ieng answered defensively, ""There was nothing I could do. You are too fond of gambling. I can't turn all of the money over to you."" A-hong knows her adversary well. She decided to take advantage of the wound she had inflicted by putting a few more things before the public. (Most quarrels in China take place by preference before an audience and the attention of the combatants is directed as much to the effect of their words on the observers as upon each other.) With lip-curling malice, A-hong continued, ""Ah, you are right. I like to gamble. And what is my dutiful daughter going to do about it? You of course, never gamble, do you? You don't remember the time in Tainan when you lost all of the money you had earned for two days, and I had to come and tell you not to gamble any more? Do you remember what you said to your mother that day? You said you didn't care. You told me you could just go with any of the guests when you had no more money. You told your mother that you had no reason to save money and that there were women as old as me working there."" Chun-ieng looked tired and depressed. When she didn't answer, her mother tried to goad her into a response. ""Well, I'm old now I don't care if people laugh at me, but if you keep saying all those things, you know who people will be laughing at. At a shameless daughter!"" Chun-ieng got up to leave the room, but at the door she paused long enough to say, ""You speak as though I enjoyed working in that place. Is that why you wouldn't let me come home, even when I begged?"" A few days later another argument on the same subject ended with A-hong threatening her daughter with a cleaver. Chun-ieng with [p. 106] a sincerity that frightened all of us, stood her ground and encouraged her mother. ""Kill me. I truly don't care. Just kill me and be done with it."" Lim A-pou pushed the girl out of the room. Tan A-hong often accuses the Lims of conspiring with and pampering her daughter. Her accusations are not unjustified. The Lims keep Chun-ieng's secrets, hide her money, and even find time in their busy schedule to do her laundry when she is in the village. One day when the women were washing clothes at the river, I overheard the following exchange between A-bok's wife, A-ki, Iu Mui-mue (another adopted daughter of the Lim family), and a neighbor. The neighbor asked, ""Isn't that Chun-ieng's blouse?"" A-ki nodded. The next question was inevitable. ""Does she pay you for that?"" A-ki answered diffidently, ""No, I only wash a few things for her when she is here."" Iu Mui-mue laughed and said, jealously, ""She doesn't pay you, but she bought your baby an outfit that cost over a hundred dollars."" A-ki giggled and said, ""That is why we say we are going to give her my daughter to be her adopted daughter."" Mui-mue responded, scornfully amused, ""Adopted daughter! Yes, you'll give her to Chun-ieng now, but when she gets older, you'll want her back."" A-ki, still giggling, said, ""That's just what Chun-ieng said the other day. She said, 'Oh, I'll adopt you now, little girl, and feed you, and when you get old enough to earn some money, you will give it all to your mother and not to me. No sense feeding you!' I told her she was the same way. Mother [A-pou] fed her when she was little, but now when she makes money, she gives it all to her own mother."" Mui-mue retorted, ""She gives money to Lim A-pou, too."" A-ki was quite indignant. ""She only gives her a few dollars now and then--nothing like she gives her mother."" Mui-mue countered that easily. ""Well, A-hong has nobody to eat with [no family], so of course she has to give her more money."" A-ki began to worry that she had said too much. ""Chun-ieng treats her mother very well. She buys her the best food and lots of nice clothes and gives her money to gamble with. She treats her very well."" The neighbor, one of A-hong's gambling companions, disagreed. [p. 107] ""Hah! How good is that. I always hear her scolding her mother. She tries to restrain her at every turn."" A-ki bristled in defense of her friend. ""That is because the mother doesn't have any sense. If her mother took care of the home and didn't gamble all the time, I'm sure Chun-ieng would give her all of the money to take care of."" The continuous quarrel between A-hong and her daughter over money reached a climax several months later. It was only then that I learned of the future Chun-ieng longed for and of the secret she and the Lim family had kept from her mother. While working in Tainan, Chun-ieng met the second son of a wealthy industrialist. Their mutual attraction deepened into a more serious interest, and the young man wanted to marry her. Many young prostitutes who have not yet compromised their future by a series of abortions, illegitimate children, or the adoption of young girls as support for their old age, marry into quite respectable families. There seems to be some notion among peasant families that a young woman who has had this kind of experience is less likely to succumb to temptation after marriage. Chun-ieng's young man, however, came from the upper classes and her welcome into his family might not be as warm. Moreover, they also had to wait until his older brother, then serving his term in the army, was married, it being bad form for a younger brother to marry before an elder. When Chun-ieng's lover was sent by his father to supervise a logging operation in central Taiwan, they decided upon a compromise. Chun-ieng would come and live with him there until such time as they could be married properly. Tan A-hong knew nothing of these plans, although she knew her daughter was fond of the young man. She herself was attracted by his reputed wealth, but the possibility of her daughter marrying anyone was something she refused to think about. Chun-ieng married would not only make a considerable dent in A-hong's income, but would also deprive her of her authority over the girl. No matter what agreements are reached at the time of marriage, a young woman's loyalty necessarily shifts to her husband. Besides, Chun-ieng was still approaching the peak of her earning power as a prostitute. Her youth and high spirits had brought her a good income until now and A-hong's practiced eyes recognized that her daughter's appeal was based on a handsomeness that would not fade as had her own but might with training turn Chun-ieng into the cool, sophisticated companion of the very wealthy. Whether or not Chun-ieng's [p. 108] talents are up to her mother's ambitions is hard to say, but with this possibility in mind, A-hong was not likely to smile upon a promise of marriage, even from the son of a wealthy industrialist. I never found out how Tan A-hong discovered the young people's plans, but it was probably through an intercepted letter. After telling the Lim family about her daughter's deceit, A-hong set out for Taipei to confront Chun-ieng in the wine house where she worked. Lim A-pou, fearing a serious outcome, accompanied her. When mother and daughter met, there was a violent scene. Chun-ieng tried to explain that she had been putting gold away for her mother's support and that she and her lover planned to send her a generous allowance, but A-hong was too angry, and perhaps too frightened, to pay any attention. She slapped Chun-ieng repeatedly, accused her of vile deeds, and told her to ""go die."" Chun-ieng ran out of the room, promising her mother that she would kill herself at once. Lim A-pou, who must have seemed wildly incongruous in this setting, sent A-hong away and searched the building for Chun-ieng. The girl was not to be found, so A-pou rushed back to the village to consult with Lim Chieng-cua. A young woman's threat of suicide is not taken lightly on Taiwan--their alternatives are too few. As soon as he heard A-pou's description of the encounter, Lim Chieng-cua hurried to Tapu where he phoned relatives and friends in Taipei to organize a search. Thus began a long tense afternoon of waiting. Tan A-hong sat in A-pou's bedroom, her mood varying between remorse and fury at the ""thankless girl."" In the midst of this anxious suspense, Li Guat-ngo, Lim A-pou's adopted daughter and Chun-ieng's childhood playmate, arrived to pay a visit to her family and in particular to Chun-ieng. Li Guat-ngo is now the wife of a moderately prosperous shopkeeper; she has two children, good humor, and a tendency to speak her mind. She listened with concern to her foster mother's account of the morning's events, casting looks of utter disgust at Tan A-hong. When A-hong began a tirade of complaints against Chun-ieng, Guat-ngo refused to listen. ""Do you want her to die? What if she does kill herself? What will you do then? She has been very good to you. You must have a very bad heart to talk this way."" Angered, Tan A-hong answered, ""I have a bad heart? You wait until your children get older and treat you like she treats me. Then you'll know what I'm talking about."" Guat-ngo: ""If my daughter is like her, I will consider myself very [p. 109] fortunate. Don't be so black-hearted. She is twenty years old now. If she wants to get married, she can do it, and you can't do anything about it. You can't get any more money from her then, can you?"" A-hong: ""That's good! Let her just try and run away from me. Get married? Let her try! If she is going to die, it is going to be in one of two ways--either she'll die on the road [i.e. homeless, friendless, impoverished] or she'll die by my hand!"" Guat-ngo was shocked. She stared at the older woman, speechless. Finally, she said, ""You are not a mother at all. You never fed her. That must be why you can say these terrible things. Now she earns lots of money for you to gamble and eat and buy pretty clothes. Isn't that enough? You had better think that's enough."" A-hong: ""That's right! I never fed her, indeed! It was war-time then and I had to search all over to find powdered milk for her, and when I found it, I had to pay to mail it all the way home here. I was going to hire someone to take care of her, but A-pou's mother wanted her so I sent her home. And how do you know she gives me so much money? Are you her go-between? What do you know about it? What do you know about anything?"" By this time, A-hong was shrieking. Her shrill voice could be heard all over the house. ""I'm well over forty years old. I don't have her by my side, but I'm still alive. I'm not freezing or starving. I want her to die on the road! I want her to die by my hands! I want her to die."" A-hong added as an afterthought--the afterthought that so often makes Taiwanese women's quarrels so ludicrous: ""I can get a job as a cook for someone."" Guat-ngo was not to be silenced by histrionics. She returned to her scolding. ""Yes, you sent a lot of powdered milk home for your daughter! Why was it then that poor grandmother was up late every night grinding rice to make gruel for her? You never fed her. She had no milk to drink. No wonder you don't care if she dies."" A-hong: ""You were just a child. What do you know about it? You say I never took care of her. She is over twenty years old and in all of that time I never took care of her? You don't know anything about it. All the people in this family side with her. They always say she is right. That is why she treats me so badly now. They let her do whatever she wanted to do."" Lim A-pou had been keeping out of the argument and trying by hand signals to get her daughter to drop it. When Tan A-hong began [p. 110] to criticize the family, however, she looked very stern and said, ""Be careful of your words. My mother and father treated her like a grandchild. They are dead now, but I am not. You never thanked them for taking care of her for you, and you had better not criticize them either."" Guat-ngo: ""And what do you mean I don't know anything about it? I was nine years old when she came here, and I often carried her on my back. When she was little she often fainted, and she often had convulsions. Didyou know that? Didyou ever take care of her when she was sick?"" Lim A-pou recovered her calm face, but was still stern looking. ""Your daughter is your daughter,"" she said. ""No matter how bad, she is still your daughter, and no matter how bad you are, you are still her mother. You must not keep saying you want her to die. She buys nice things to feed you and nice clothes for you to wear, and she does this only for you. You are the only one she gives things to, except the children now and then. If you want to treat her badly, we cannot stop you, but because I took care of her when she was little, I have a right to say some things. If you want to be someone's servant, you won't find it such a bad job. Anybody can be a servant. You had better take a look at yourself first, though. Are you healthy enough for that?"" Tan A-hong suffers from asthma and is extremely thin, both conditions exacerbated by her all night gambling and chain smoking. A-hong: ""My bad health is her fault, too. When my youngest daughter was born, it was winter and Chun-ieng refused to wash or cook for me so I had to get up and do it myself. My bad health is all due to her. She refused to help me. I want her to die. If she won't treat me like a mother, I won't treat her like a daughter."" Guat-ngo: ""You just think it over. There may be some daughters who treat their mothers better than Chun-ieng treats you, but if my daughter treats me as well, I will say that I have great good fortune."" A-pou: ""Your lot in life compares better with rich people than with mine. I have two sons, but even sons can't buy clothes for me. You only have a daughter, but look what a pretty sweater she bought you."" A-hong threw the sweater on the floor and said, ""Pretty sweater! I may be over forty, but I don't need that wretch to feed me. She never has fed me."" [p. 111] Guat-ngo laughed at the absurdity of this statement. ""If she has never fed you, where do you get all the money to eat? If she never gives you any money, where do you get all the money for this?"" She made gambling motions with her hands. ""Just where do you get your pretty clothes and fine white rice?"" Tan A-hong grew hysterical and began screaming curses at the younger woman, threatening to hit her. A-pou made her daughter leave the room. This calmed A-hong somewhat, but she continued her complaints and again began to accuse the Lims, in particular Lim Han-ci and his wife, of teaching her daughter to disobey her. Lim Chieng-cua, who had returned from Tapu part way through the quarrel, was sitting in the next room, trying to ignore the angry voices. When A-hong spoke of his parents, he stalked into the bed-room and, very red in the face, demanded, ""Has anyone asked you for money in all the time you have lived here and eaten here? Nobody wants to hear your noise. You are not right, but you think you are very smart. I have scolded your daughter several times for not being more polite to you, even though I knew she was in the right and you deserved whatever harsh words she gave you. There are several people here who are not relatives who can tell you that this is true. It is only a mother who can decide whether a girl is good or bad, but I want you to listen to this. She is not as bad as you are trying to make people believe."" Lim Chieng-cua's anger subsided when A-hong began to cry. He continued scolding her, however, sounding very much like a school-master reading lessons. ""I have heard mothers say that they wanted their daughters to die, but I have never heard a real mother say this. It was always a foster mother or a stepmother. Why is it that you talk this way? You think it over for awhile. You tell us she only left you a few dollars for the whole week. You never tell her the truth, so she never knows whether you really need money or not. If you really need money you can just tell her how much you need and she will give it to you. Why must you keep pushing the girl all the time? You are her mother. She knows she has to take care of you."" A-hong, sobbing, said, ""You didn't see her yesterday. You don't know what her face looks like when I ask her for money."" ""I do know."" Lim Chieng-cua rejoined. ""I have seen that expression, and it is one of the things I have scolded her about. But, if you never lied to her, if you always treated her like your own daughter and [p. 112] not an adopted daughter, she wouldn't be that way. She doesn't know whether you really need money or not. You have lost every dollar you got from selling your house now. Sure, that was your own money to do with as you wished, but you think about that, too. She is getting older and she is going to take care of you after she's married, but she won't be able to give you so much money to gamble with. Married or not, she won't be able to make this much money in a few more years. If you had another NT$10,000 to gamble with, you wouldn't be in this mood today."" As he left the room, Lim Chieng-cua added: ""It is a rule that a childmust be good to his parents, but parents have to treat their children decently, too. That is also a rule. You can do many things to your children, but there is a point beyond which you cannot go. You have already gone too far. You must stop pushing her. If she is dead, your next daughter is too young to be of any use to you. What will you do?"" Tan A-hong, crying quietly, went home. Late that evening, Lim Chieng-cua was summoned to Tapu to receive a telephone call. One of the children was sent to tell A-hong. She was a pitiful sight as she walked into the house. Her anger was gone and her terror reduced her to listing absurd reasons as to why Chun-ieng would not kill herself. When Lim Chieng-cua returned, he told the assembled group that Chun-ieng had been found and was in good health. He didn't even look at Tan A-hong and retired at once to his bedroom. Chun-ieng returned to Peihotien late the next day, and I'm afraid the villagers were rather disappointed by her appearance. She should have looked wan and dejected, but instead she looked happier than I have ever seen her. She amiably satisfied the curiosity of her neighbors, saving the details of her adventure for the family. Her skill in story-telling did not suffer even when the story was at her own expense. After running out of the wine house, she bought some poison and went to a hotel. She gave us a humorous description of the delighted, if bewildered, pedi-cab driver to whom she gave the last of her money. Just as she was about to take the pills, she heard someone in the hotel being called to the telephone and decided she should phone her lover in Tainan so that he wouldn't think she had killed herself because of something he had done. The connection was, of course, bad, so the boyfriend made her promise to wait until he could [p. 113] get to Taipei to talk with her. She then spent an entertaining hour trying to locate some relatives who would come and pay her hotel bill. The source of Chun-ieng's unexpected happiness was revealed more slowly. Tan A-hong's complaints about her daughter were not completely groundless. Chun-ieng often answered her angry words with scorn and disrespect. She did not trust her mother and sometimes treated her honest need for money with disdain--understandable perhaps, but not behavior expected of a dutiful daughter. Unfortunately, Chun-iengwas a dutiful daughter. The anguish which prompted her toward suicide was as much the result of her own self-blame as of her mother's imprecations. Lim A-pou told me many months later that this was not the first time Chun-ieng had contemplated leaving her mother (always with adequate financial provision), but each time she had felt sorry for the older woman and returned. The interview that took place with her lover when he arrived from Tainan seemed to provide another solution. He generously proposed that she give up her plan of joining him, but also give up her work in the winehouse. He would send her a weekly allowance (the sum of which caused many round eyes) and visit her as often as possible until the day when they could be married. After their marriage, they would decide what to do about her mother. This was indeed a fairy-tale ending if it had been in fact the ending. We had the pleasure of Chun-ieng's presence around the village for several months. Her boyfriend visited fairly regularly and she occasionally went to see him. Needless to say, each of her trips was preceded by anxious ill-temper on the part of Tan A-hong, but Chun-ieng always returned at the appointed time. Their quarrels were either less frequent or less violent because they came to my attention only rarely during those months. After awhile, though, I began to see more of Chun-ieng in the Lim house, often in tears, and I heard more of Tan A-hong's gambling debts. It wasn't long before Chun-ieng started disappearing from the village for two or three days at a time. I asked the family about her absences and received noncommittal answers until finally Lim A-pou admitted that she had returned to work. When I asked what would happen if her boyfriend unexpectedly turned up, Lim A-pou told me sadly, ""We are supposed to tell him she has gone to work as a hostess in a coffee shop and we don't know where it is."" Whether her lover discovered her deception or whether Chun-ieng [p. 114] herself finally gave up hope, I never found out, but after a few more months his visits to the village ceased, and Chun-ieng spent most of her time in Taipei. The Lims had little to say on the subject, but I don't think I only imagined that Tan A-hong came to the house considerably less often than was her wont. Perhaps she was just busier at her gambling. During the last few months of my stay with the Lims, I noticed Lim A-pou make several trips out of the village dressed in her formal dark clothing. I asked A-ki where her mother-in-law was going, but got only a sad shake of the head. Then one day Lim A-pou returned with Chun-ieng, accompanied by a pretty though very frightened four-year-old girl. At Chun-ieng's request, Lim A-pou had found her a daughter to adopt. Chun-ieng stayed home from work for several days, spending all her time with the child, trying to coax a smile or a few words from her frightened lips. She played games with her, told her stories, bought her candy, and changed her clothes half a dozen times a day. Before Chun-ieng returned to work, the glazed look in her foster daughter's eyes was gone, but she looked terrified whenever Chun-ieng left the room. When Chun-ieng returned to Taipei, this second abandonment seemed too great for her daughter to bear. Day after day the child sat in the guest hall, her tiny body pulled up to occupy the smallest amount of space in the wicker chair, her eyes dully resting on the floor. The busy adults tried to lure her into activity and even the children treated her with special consideration, but nothing seemed to have any effect. When ordered to eat, she ate, but as soon as possible she would crawl back into the chair. She never cried and as far as I know never spoke. Her grief totally engulfed her. I am still haunted by that tiny figure of silent despair crouching in the shadows of the empty guest hall. Her despair was to me, and from their sad faces, to the Lims as well, a symbol of Chun-ieng's despair. Chun-ieng had at last accepted her mother's profession and turned her back on dreams of a normal life."	No evidence	x	young adult	The anguish which prompted her toward suicide was as much the result of her own self-blame as of her mother's imprecations.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The anguish which prompted her toward suicide was as much the result of her own self-blame as of her mother's imprecations.	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	female	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		no	anguish	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		first person
182	syme	Case	Taiwan Hokkien	"Except on the coldest days and for a few hours each night, the doors of the houses in Peihotien are never closed. A closed door in the daytime would arouse concern or suspicion and would surely bring a group of neighbors to inquire as to what the trouble might be. Few strangers come to Peihotien and when they do, they nearly always send one of the swarming children to run ahead and announce to Mr. Lim or Mr. Ong that he has a visitor. A neighbor looking for Mr. Lim or Mr. Ong simply walks into the house calling his name, and if Mr. Lim or Mr. Ong does not answer, he walks on out again. An intimate friend or relative walks into the house even more casually, wandering through the passageways until he finds someone, courteously coughing before bushing aside the curtains of a bedroom door in his search. Until I became familiar with the faces of the intimates of the Lim family and with the villagers who dropped in there frequently, I had the uncomfortable sensation that the narrow passageways of our house were thoroughfares at least as public as the lanes outside. The situation was even more confusing to me as a newcomer because the number of people actually living in the house varied from week to week. During the harvest season, gangs of workmen came up from the south to cut the rice and stayed in the house for the three or four days it took to harvest the Lim fields. When Lim A-bok strained his back, a young relative lived in the house and helped with the field work. At least twice an old woman distantly related through Lim Han-ci's wife stayed in the house for several weeks while the Lims tried to patch up [p. 100] her quarrel with her daughter. Other relatives came to stay for a few nights or a few months. When Tan A-hong appeared with her five-year-old daughter, I had become so used to the stream of visitors that I didn't even bother to ask who she was for a week or so. I knew, of course, her surname, but when I casually asked A-bok's giddy wife if she was a relative, I dismissed the confused yes-and-no of her answer as just one more sample of A-ki's disorderly thoughts. However, as Tan A-hong's visit lengthened, we noticed that she consistently used kinship terms when addressing the Lims. She was visited frequently by an unusually attractive young woman who was introduced as her daughter and who was treated by the Lims as a much beloved family member. It did not take many questions to discover that Tan A-hong was the adopted daughter Lim Han-ci had given to another family when his own daughter was returned by her foster family. Tan A-hong remained in our house for several months and when one of the small village houses owned by the Lims became vacant, she moved into it, becoming a resident of Peihotien. By Taiwanese standards, Lim Han-ci had been generous in his treatment of Tan A-hong. Since she was ""only an adopted daughter,"" he would have been justified in selling her to the highest bidder when he found he no longer had reason to keep her and could no longer afford to keep her. The highest bidders in those days were dealers who bought attractive female children to raise as prostitutes, wealthy families who wanted slaves, or prostitutes who adopted daughters to raise in their profession as support for their own old age. Instead of this, Lim Han-ci arranged for A-hong's future in the way he would have arranged the future of a daughter born to him: he found a family who wished to adopt a girl as their son's future wife. A-hong was not sweettempered, even as a girl. The family who adopted her evidently had second thoughts about marrying her to their son. She was married out of the family. At least A-hong claims that her exit from the Tan family was by way of a respectable marriage, but the facts of her subsequent career and her retention of the Tan surname cast some doubt on this. The marriage, if it existed, was brief, for Tan A-hong soon moved to southern Taiwan where she earned her living as a prostitute. It was at this time that she further altered her name to include the character for phoenix (hong ) which is often found in the professional names of women who follow her calling. Legally and socially, the obligations of the Lims toward A-hong [p. 101] ceased when she entered the family of Tan. Even though she had been an adopted daughter in the Lim house for ten years, she had been sent with all propriety to the home of her future husband. If she left that family as a respectable bride, she should have brought her troubles back to them, or even to her natal family if she knew their whereabouts. Instead, A-hong always brought her problems home to the Lims. A quarrel with the man who was currently supporting her was grounds for a week's vacation at the Lim's. If she had trouble finding a new ""friend,"" she stayed for awhile with the Lims. Her eldest daughter, Chun-ieng, spent as much of her childhood under the care of Lim Han-ci's wife and Lim A-pou as she did with her mother. Why Tan A-hong felt she could make such demands on the family, and why they allowed it, is a puzzle, but she continues to do so to this day. Chun-ieng was born during the war. Many children were sent into the country during those years to protect them from the American bombings and so Chun-ieng, of course, was sent to the Lims. A-hong's second child was a son. When he was five or six, A-hong was living with a man. apparently not his father, in Tainan. They quarreled one evening and in a fit of temper she ran out, leaving him with the boy. She stayed away for nearly two weeks, during which time the boy contracted measles. A-hong's gentleman friend did his best at an unfamiliar job, but when A-hong recovered her good humor and returned, her son was dead. Sometime later she adopted a daughter who succumbed to a similar disease before she was old enough to walk. Finally, in A-hong's fortieth year, when her fading looks had forced her to work in the least desirable brothels of Tainan, she gave birth to her daughter, Chai-ngo. When I met Tan A-hong, it was as hard to believe that she was only forty-five as it was to believe that she had once been a very pretty woman. She is quite short, fine boned, with delicate wrists and ankles, but now her back is stooped and her shoulders hunched, perhaps, as many people suggest, from the long hours she spends at the gambling tables. Her face is beautifully proportioned with a small, thin nose, high cheek bones, fairly large eyes and a fine wide brow. But now, her cheeks are sunken and lined, and her high cheek bones suggest too strongly the skeleton that lies beneath the sallow, muddy skin. Her hair is no longer thick, but it is still unusually fine in texture. She combs it so rarely that its quality goes unnoticed. She dresses in the fashion of the poorest village wife, sloppily and with not a few greasy [p. 102] spots on her skirt--but the sweater she throws over her shoulders is often imported. Her voice is shrill or gives that impression because she is nearly always scolding or complaining about something, but one can imagine that it was once a light feminine soprano. Tan A-hong had not had any permanent ""friends"" for some time before Chai-ngo was born, and after her birth she found it more and more difficult to make a living. Chun-ieng was sent out to work. She was nineteen when I first met her and had been working as a prostitute for four years. To me she seemed more like a sophisticated American teenager than the timid giggling village girls her age. She was considerably less curious about us then were her contemporaries in the village, but far less hesitant about satisfying her curiosity. The village girls went into paroxysms of shyness if I asked them a question, but Chun-ieng howled at my accent and then good-humoredly tried to answer my questions. I rarely saw her interacting with anyone her own age in the village, but she joins the games of small children with an abandon and glee that would bring blushes of shame to the cheeks of her stodgy peers. The childish pleasure she finds in cooking, in feeding the family's dog, or in watching a newly hatched flock of ducks is both unaffected and pathetic. When she is in the village, Chun-ieng dresses soberly and wears little or no make-up, but she is undeniably different from the other girls her age. Her upright bearing, her poise in conversation, and even her smooth, pale skin are out of place in the muddy lanes and the coarse brick farmhouses. She is tall, unlike her mother, but her bones have the same delicacy. Her face is long and thin, giving her high cheekbones the drama that her mother's lack. Her eyes are a bit too small, but she shapes her eyebrows carefully to minimize the defect. She doesn't cut her fine black hair, nor allow it to be frizzed by cheap permanents. Often in the village she pulls it back into a pony tail, giving her an innocent Alice-in-Wonderland look. She loves to gossip and has great skill in spinning a simple anecdote into an intriguing story. Without slipping into vulgarity, she can entertain the rather staid women of the Lim household with endless stories about her work--she can even keep Lim A-pou sitting for awhile. There is always more laughter in the house when Chun-ieng is home. Prostitutes in Peihotien occupy a rather ambiguous position, resembling in no way the status forced on a prostitute, retired or active, in an American small town. They are considered ""more interesting"" [p. 103] than other women of their age and income, but judgments about their morality or respectability are not based on their profession. Too many village girls have had to ""go out to work"" to support aging parents or young siblings. In recent years, there has only been one girl in the area who entered a brothel by choice, lured by the fine clothes and exciting life. More commonly, women become prostitutes because they were raised for that purpose, or because their family is desperately in need of the income. The villagers are not inclined to think of these girls as martyrs since Chinese children are expected to make great sacrifices for their parents, but they are not likely to criticize them either. On the contrary, most villagers assume a girl has amply repaid the debt she owes her parents for raising her when she obeys their command to become a prostitute--repaid it more fully than the daughter who remains at home can ever hope to. Parents can nearly always count on the support of village opinion in deciding the future of their daughter unless that daughter has supported the family for several years by prostitution. By giving up her youth, the young prostitute has gained a certain amount of control over her future. In the village her respectability depends upon how careful she is to walk within the paths of traditional morality when she is home for a few days each month, how compliant she is in turning over the majority of her earnings to her parents, and how cautious she is with village males. A prostitute who carries on professional activities within the village is in deep trouble. If her relatives are not aware of her indiscretion, they will be told, and that is usually enough. It is a small community. No one in the Lim family tried to conceal from us Tan A-hong's former occupation or the source of Chun-ieng's present earnings. They are not callous about Chun-ieng's fate, but they also see her soft fingers resting next to their scarred, calloused hands, her delicate silk dresses hanging beside their coarse, shapeless working clothes, her closed bedroom door when they come in after three hours of early morning weeding in the fields. About her future they feel pity, but the life of a woman in a farm family is not easy either. In Chun-ieng's difficulties with her mother, however, she has the family's complete sympathy. They may chide her occasionally, or remind her of her mother's seniority, but their words lack conviction. Tan A-hong's outrageous behavior toward her daughter would challenge the beliefs of the most adamant proponent of filial piety. In all fairness, I must [p. 104] admit at this point to a strong prejudice against Tan A-hong. I could find in her no redeeming qualities. Her life has been hard and full of frustrations, but it was a way of life she chose in preference to that of marriage. She did not allow her daughter that choice. Tan A-hong's latest return to Peihotien was primarily at her daughter's urging. To bring her mother north, Chun-ieng gave up a good, secure income in one of the best houses in Tainan and complicated a personal love affair that mattered a great deal to her. Her motives need little explanation: A-hong, as with many women her age and, in particular, women who have been prostitutes, is a habitual gambler. She gambles as long as she can find money and players. When she runs out of money, she sells anything at hand, borrows from anyone foolish enough to loan, and begs from those who refuse loans. Chun-ieng's beauty and vivacious personality provided her with a very good income, but her mother was spending the majority of it in the expensive twenty-four-hour gambling houses of Tainan. Chun-ieng had trouble meeting ordinary living expenses. So, she persuaded her mother to sell her small house, invested as much of the money as she could get away from her into gold (the landless person's only insurance against inflation), and moved her to Peihotien. While Chun-ieng went on to Taipei to find work, her mother searched out the small gambling dens of Hotien. Their status as guests in the Lim house had no effect on the quarrels between A-hong and Chun-ieng. They were loud and bitter. One night when Chun-ieng returned from Taipei after an absence of a week, she was greeted with the news that her mother had lost over NT$700 in two nights of gambling--nearly a week's income for Chun-ieng and almost a month's income for the average family. Chun-ieng tactlessly demanded that her mother turn over the remainder of the money she had received from the sale of the house. A-hong, of course, refused. ""This is my money. Why should I give it to you? Sure, I gamble, but what about you? Don't you ever gamble? You say you want to buy gold with it! Huh! You just want to spend it. You have your own money if you want to buy gold, and you already have plenty of gold hidden away, too. I want to keep my money. Maybe I'll buy some gold, too."" Chun-ieng answered her wearily, ""All right, I'm not going to argue with you. I'm too tired. I just wanted to say something about it so that people would know I tried and would not blame me."" [p. 105] Although A-hong expects her daughter to provide for her as for a child, she resents being treated as a child. Chun-ieng's words angered her. ""How can you be so shameless. I know what you are telling people--you are telling them I lost lots of money in Tainan and then sold your clothes and your gold to get more. You are shameless. You know how little money you gave me. You didn't give me all the money you earned so I had to take it. Aren't you ashamed to tell all those lies?"" This touched a sore spot in Chun-ieng. She wants very much to be considered a proper filial daughter and her mother accused her of withholding her earnings, a most unfilial act. Chun-ieng answered defensively, ""There was nothing I could do. You are too fond of gambling. I can't turn all of the money over to you."" A-hong knows her adversary well. She decided to take advantage of the wound she had inflicted by putting a few more things before the public. (Most quarrels in China take place by preference before an audience and the attention of the combatants is directed as much to the effect of their words on the observers as upon each other.) With lip-curling malice, A-hong continued, ""Ah, you are right. I like to gamble. And what is my dutiful daughter going to do about it? You of course, never gamble, do you? You don't remember the time in Tainan when you lost all of the money you had earned for two days, and I had to come and tell you not to gamble any more? Do you remember what you said to your mother that day? You said you didn't care. You told me you could just go with any of the guests when you had no more money. You told your mother that you had no reason to save money and that there were women as old as me working there."" Chun-ieng looked tired and depressed. When she didn't answer, her mother tried to goad her into a response. ""Well, I'm old now I don't care if people laugh at me, but if you keep saying all those things, you know who people will be laughing at. At a shameless daughter!"" Chun-ieng got up to leave the room, but at the door she paused long enough to say, ""You speak as though I enjoyed working in that place. Is that why you wouldn't let me come home, even when I begged?"" A few days later another argument on the same subject ended with A-hong threatening her daughter with a cleaver. Chun-ieng with [p. 106] a sincerity that frightened all of us, stood her ground and encouraged her mother. ""Kill me. I truly don't care. Just kill me and be done with it."" Lim A-pou pushed the girl out of the room. Tan A-hong often accuses the Lims of conspiring with and pampering her daughter. Her accusations are not unjustified. The Lims keep Chun-ieng's secrets, hide her money, and even find time in their busy schedule to do her laundry when she is in the village. One day when the women were washing clothes at the river, I overheard the following exchange between A-bok's wife, A-ki, Iu Mui-mue (another adopted daughter of the Lim family), and a neighbor. The neighbor asked, ""Isn't that Chun-ieng's blouse?"" A-ki nodded. The next question was inevitable. ""Does she pay you for that?"" A-ki answered diffidently, ""No, I only wash a few things for her when she is here."" Iu Mui-mue laughed and said, jealously, ""She doesn't pay you, but she bought your baby an outfit that cost over a hundred dollars."" A-ki giggled and said, ""That is why we say we are going to give her my daughter to be her adopted daughter."" Mui-mue responded, scornfully amused, ""Adopted daughter! Yes, you'll give her to Chun-ieng now, but when she gets older, you'll want her back."" A-ki, still giggling, said, ""That's just what Chun-ieng said the other day. She said, 'Oh, I'll adopt you now, little girl, and feed you, and when you get old enough to earn some money, you will give it all to your mother and not to me. No sense feeding you!' I told her she was the same way. Mother [A-pou] fed her when she was little, but now when she makes money, she gives it all to her own mother."" Mui-mue retorted, ""She gives money to Lim A-pou, too."" A-ki was quite indignant. ""She only gives her a few dollars now and then--nothing like she gives her mother."" Mui-mue countered that easily. ""Well, A-hong has nobody to eat with [no family], so of course she has to give her more money."" A-ki began to worry that she had said too much. ""Chun-ieng treats her mother very well. She buys her the best food and lots of nice clothes and gives her money to gamble with. She treats her very well."" The neighbor, one of A-hong's gambling companions, disagreed. [p. 107] ""Hah! How good is that. I always hear her scolding her mother. She tries to restrain her at every turn."" A-ki bristled in defense of her friend. ""That is because the mother doesn't have any sense. If her mother took care of the home and didn't gamble all the time, I'm sure Chun-ieng would give her all of the money to take care of."" The continuous quarrel between A-hong and her daughter over money reached a climax several months later. It was only then that I learned of the future Chun-ieng longed for and of the secret she and the Lim family had kept from her mother. While working in Tainan, Chun-ieng met the second son of a wealthy industrialist. Their mutual attraction deepened into a more serious interest, and the young man wanted to marry her. Many young prostitutes who have not yet compromised their future by a series of abortions, illegitimate children, or the adoption of young girls as support for their old age, marry into quite respectable families. There seems to be some notion among peasant families that a young woman who has had this kind of experience is less likely to succumb to temptation after marriage. Chun-ieng's young man, however, came from the upper classes and her welcome into his family might not be as warm. Moreover, they also had to wait until his older brother, then serving his term in the army, was married, it being bad form for a younger brother to marry before an elder. When Chun-ieng's lover was sent by his father to supervise a logging operation in central Taiwan, they decided upon a compromise. Chun-ieng would come and live with him there until such time as they could be married properly. Tan A-hong knew nothing of these plans, although she knew her daughter was fond of the young man. She herself was attracted by his reputed wealth, but the possibility of her daughter marrying anyone was something she refused to think about. Chun-ieng married would not only make a considerable dent in A-hong's income, but would also deprive her of her authority over the girl. No matter what agreements are reached at the time of marriage, a young woman's loyalty necessarily shifts to her husband. Besides, Chun-ieng was still approaching the peak of her earning power as a prostitute. Her youth and high spirits had brought her a good income until now and A-hong's practiced eyes recognized that her daughter's appeal was based on a handsomeness that would not fade as had her own but might with training turn Chun-ieng into the cool, sophisticated companion of the very wealthy. Whether or not Chun-ieng's [p. 108] talents are up to her mother's ambitions is hard to say, but with this possibility in mind, A-hong was not likely to smile upon a promise of marriage, even from the son of a wealthy industrialist. I never found out how Tan A-hong discovered the young people's plans, but it was probably through an intercepted letter. After telling the Lim family about her daughter's deceit, A-hong set out for Taipei to confront Chun-ieng in the wine house where she worked. Lim A-pou, fearing a serious outcome, accompanied her. When mother and daughter met, there was a violent scene. Chun-ieng tried to explain that she had been putting gold away for her mother's support and that she and her lover planned to send her a generous allowance, but A-hong was too angry, and perhaps too frightened, to pay any attention. She slapped Chun-ieng repeatedly, accused her of vile deeds, and told her to ""go die."" Chun-ieng ran out of the room, promising her mother that she would kill herself at once. Lim A-pou, who must have seemed wildly incongruous in this setting, sent A-hong away and searched the building for Chun-ieng. The girl was not to be found, so A-pou rushed back to the village to consult with Lim Chieng-cua. A young woman's threat of suicide is not taken lightly on Taiwan--their alternatives are too few. As soon as he heard A-pou's description of the encounter, Lim Chieng-cua hurried to Tapu where he phoned relatives and friends in Taipei to organize a search. Thus began a long tense afternoon of waiting. Tan A-hong sat in A-pou's bedroom, her mood varying between remorse and fury at the ""thankless girl."" In the midst of this anxious suspense, Li Guat-ngo, Lim A-pou's adopted daughter and Chun-ieng's childhood playmate, arrived to pay a visit to her family and in particular to Chun-ieng. Li Guat-ngo is now the wife of a moderately prosperous shopkeeper; she has two children, good humor, and a tendency to speak her mind. She listened with concern to her foster mother's account of the morning's events, casting looks of utter disgust at Tan A-hong. When A-hong began a tirade of complaints against Chun-ieng, Guat-ngo refused to listen. ""Do you want her to die? What if she does kill herself? What will you do then? She has been very good to you. You must have a very bad heart to talk this way."" Angered, Tan A-hong answered, ""I have a bad heart? You wait until your children get older and treat you like she treats me. Then you'll know what I'm talking about."" Guat-ngo: ""If my daughter is like her, I will consider myself very [p. 109] fortunate. Don't be so black-hearted. She is twenty years old now. If she wants to get married, she can do it, and you can't do anything about it. You can't get any more money from her then, can you?"" A-hong: ""That's good! Let her just try and run away from me. Get married? Let her try! If she is going to die, it is going to be in one of two ways--either she'll die on the road [i.e. homeless, friendless, impoverished] or she'll die by my hand!"" Guat-ngo was shocked. She stared at the older woman, speechless. Finally, she said, ""You are not a mother at all. You never fed her. That must be why you can say these terrible things. Now she earns lots of money for you to gamble and eat and buy pretty clothes. Isn't that enough? You had better think that's enough."" A-hong: ""That's right! I never fed her, indeed! It was war-time then and I had to search all over to find powdered milk for her, and when I found it, I had to pay to mail it all the way home here. I was going to hire someone to take care of her, but A-pou's mother wanted her so I sent her home. And how do you know she gives me so much money? Are you her go-between? What do you know about it? What do you know about anything?"" By this time, A-hong was shrieking. Her shrill voice could be heard all over the house. ""I'm well over forty years old. I don't have her by my side, but I'm still alive. I'm not freezing or starving. I want her to die on the road! I want her to die by my hands! I want her to die."" A-hong added as an afterthought--the afterthought that so often makes Taiwanese women's quarrels so ludicrous: ""I can get a job as a cook for someone."" Guat-ngo was not to be silenced by histrionics. She returned to her scolding. ""Yes, you sent a lot of powdered milk home for your daughter! Why was it then that poor grandmother was up late every night grinding rice to make gruel for her? You never fed her. She had no milk to drink. No wonder you don't care if she dies."" A-hong: ""You were just a child. What do you know about it? You say I never took care of her. She is over twenty years old and in all of that time I never took care of her? You don't know anything about it. All the people in this family side with her. They always say she is right. That is why she treats me so badly now. They let her do whatever she wanted to do."" Lim A-pou had been keeping out of the argument and trying by hand signals to get her daughter to drop it. When Tan A-hong began [p. 110] to criticize the family, however, she looked very stern and said, ""Be careful of your words. My mother and father treated her like a grandchild. They are dead now, but I am not. You never thanked them for taking care of her for you, and you had better not criticize them either."" Guat-ngo: ""And what do you mean I don't know anything about it? I was nine years old when she came here, and I often carried her on my back. When she was little she often fainted, and she often had convulsions. Didyou know that? Didyou ever take care of her when she was sick?"" Lim A-pou recovered her calm face, but was still stern looking. ""Your daughter is your daughter,"" she said. ""No matter how bad, she is still your daughter, and no matter how bad you are, you are still her mother. You must not keep saying you want her to die. She buys nice things to feed you and nice clothes for you to wear, and she does this only for you. You are the only one she gives things to, except the children now and then. If you want to treat her badly, we cannot stop you, but because I took care of her when she was little, I have a right to say some things. If you want to be someone's servant, you won't find it such a bad job. Anybody can be a servant. You had better take a look at yourself first, though. Are you healthy enough for that?"" Tan A-hong suffers from asthma and is extremely thin, both conditions exacerbated by her all night gambling and chain smoking. A-hong: ""My bad health is her fault, too. When my youngest daughter was born, it was winter and Chun-ieng refused to wash or cook for me so I had to get up and do it myself. My bad health is all due to her. She refused to help me. I want her to die. If she won't treat me like a mother, I won't treat her like a daughter."" Guat-ngo: ""You just think it over. There may be some daughters who treat their mothers better than Chun-ieng treats you, but if my daughter treats me as well, I will say that I have great good fortune."" A-pou: ""Your lot in life compares better with rich people than with mine. I have two sons, but even sons can't buy clothes for me. You only have a daughter, but look what a pretty sweater she bought you."" A-hong threw the sweater on the floor and said, ""Pretty sweater! I may be over forty, but I don't need that wretch to feed me. She never has fed me."" [p. 111] Guat-ngo laughed at the absurdity of this statement. ""If she has never fed you, where do you get all the money to eat? If she never gives you any money, where do you get all the money for this?"" She made gambling motions with her hands. ""Just where do you get your pretty clothes and fine white rice?"" Tan A-hong grew hysterical and began screaming curses at the younger woman, threatening to hit her. A-pou made her daughter leave the room. This calmed A-hong somewhat, but she continued her complaints and again began to accuse the Lims, in particular Lim Han-ci and his wife, of teaching her daughter to disobey her. Lim Chieng-cua, who had returned from Tapu part way through the quarrel, was sitting in the next room, trying to ignore the angry voices. When A-hong spoke of his parents, he stalked into the bed-room and, very red in the face, demanded, ""Has anyone asked you for money in all the time you have lived here and eaten here? Nobody wants to hear your noise. You are not right, but you think you are very smart. I have scolded your daughter several times for not being more polite to you, even though I knew she was in the right and you deserved whatever harsh words she gave you. There are several people here who are not relatives who can tell you that this is true. It is only a mother who can decide whether a girl is good or bad, but I want you to listen to this. She is not as bad as you are trying to make people believe."" Lim Chieng-cua's anger subsided when A-hong began to cry. He continued scolding her, however, sounding very much like a school-master reading lessons. ""I have heard mothers say that they wanted their daughters to die, but I have never heard a real mother say this. It was always a foster mother or a stepmother. Why is it that you talk this way? You think it over for awhile. You tell us she only left you a few dollars for the whole week. You never tell her the truth, so she never knows whether you really need money or not. If you really need money you can just tell her how much you need and she will give it to you. Why must you keep pushing the girl all the time? You are her mother. She knows she has to take care of you."" A-hong, sobbing, said, ""You didn't see her yesterday. You don't know what her face looks like when I ask her for money."" ""I do know."" Lim Chieng-cua rejoined. ""I have seen that expression, and it is one of the things I have scolded her about. But, if you never lied to her, if you always treated her like your own daughter and [p. 112] not an adopted daughter, she wouldn't be that way. She doesn't know whether you really need money or not. You have lost every dollar you got from selling your house now. Sure, that was your own money to do with as you wished, but you think about that, too. She is getting older and she is going to take care of you after she's married, but she won't be able to give you so much money to gamble with. Married or not, she won't be able to make this much money in a few more years. If you had another NT$10,000 to gamble with, you wouldn't be in this mood today."" As he left the room, Lim Chieng-cua added: ""It is a rule that a childmust be good to his parents, but parents have to treat their children decently, too. That is also a rule. You can do many things to your children, but there is a point beyond which you cannot go. You have already gone too far. You must stop pushing her. If she is dead, your next daughter is too young to be of any use to you. What will you do?"" Tan A-hong, crying quietly, went home. Late that evening, Lim Chieng-cua was summoned to Tapu to receive a telephone call. One of the children was sent to tell A-hong. She was a pitiful sight as she walked into the house. Her anger was gone and her terror reduced her to listing absurd reasons as to why Chun-ieng would not kill herself. When Lim Chieng-cua returned, he told the assembled group that Chun-ieng had been found and was in good health. He didn't even look at Tan A-hong and retired at once to his bedroom. Chun-ieng returned to Peihotien late the next day, and I'm afraid the villagers were rather disappointed by her appearance. She should have looked wan and dejected, but instead she looked happier than I have ever seen her. She amiably satisfied the curiosity of her neighbors, saving the details of her adventure for the family. Her skill in story-telling did not suffer even when the story was at her own expense. After running out of the wine house, she bought some poison and went to a hotel. She gave us a humorous description of the delighted, if bewildered, pedi-cab driver to whom she gave the last of her money. Just as she was about to take the pills, she heard someone in the hotel being called to the telephone and decided she should phone her lover in Tainan so that he wouldn't think she had killed herself because of something he had done. The connection was, of course, bad, so the boyfriend made her promise to wait until he could [p. 113] get to Taipei to talk with her. She then spent an entertaining hour trying to locate some relatives who would come and pay her hotel bill. The source of Chun-ieng's unexpected happiness was revealed more slowly. Tan A-hong's complaints about her daughter were not completely groundless. Chun-ieng often answered her angry words with scorn and disrespect. She did not trust her mother and sometimes treated her honest need for money with disdain--understandable perhaps, but not behavior expected of a dutiful daughter. Unfortunately, Chun-iengwas a dutiful daughter. The anguish which prompted her toward suicide was as much the result of her own self-blame as of her mother's imprecations. Lim A-pou told me many months later that this was not the first time Chun-ieng had contemplated leaving her mother (always with adequate financial provision), but each time she had felt sorry for the older woman and returned. The interview that took place with her lover when he arrived from Tainan seemed to provide another solution. He generously proposed that she give up her plan of joining him, but also give up her work in the winehouse. He would send her a weekly allowance (the sum of which caused many round eyes) and visit her as often as possible until the day when they could be married. After their marriage, they would decide what to do about her mother. This was indeed a fairy-tale ending if it had been in fact the ending. We had the pleasure of Chun-ieng's presence around the village for several months. Her boyfriend visited fairly regularly and she occasionally went to see him. Needless to say, each of her trips was preceded by anxious ill-temper on the part of Tan A-hong, but Chun-ieng always returned at the appointed time. Their quarrels were either less frequent or less violent because they came to my attention only rarely during those months. After awhile, though, I began to see more of Chun-ieng in the Lim house, often in tears, and I heard more of Tan A-hong's gambling debts. It wasn't long before Chun-ieng started disappearing from the village for two or three days at a time. I asked the family about her absences and received noncommittal answers until finally Lim A-pou admitted that she had returned to work. When I asked what would happen if her boyfriend unexpectedly turned up, Lim A-pou told me sadly, ""We are supposed to tell him she has gone to work as a hostess in a coffee shop and we don't know where it is."" Whether her lover discovered her deception or whether Chun-ieng [p. 114] herself finally gave up hope, I never found out, but after a few more months his visits to the village ceased, and Chun-ieng spent most of her time in Taipei. The Lims had little to say on the subject, but I don't think I only imagined that Tan A-hong came to the house considerably less often than was her wont. Perhaps she was just busier at her gambling. During the last few months of my stay with the Lims, I noticed Lim A-pou make several trips out of the village dressed in her formal dark clothing. I asked A-ki where her mother-in-law was going, but got only a sad shake of the head. Then one day Lim A-pou returned with Chun-ieng, accompanied by a pretty though very frightened four-year-old girl. At Chun-ieng's request, Lim A-pou had found her a daughter to adopt. Chun-ieng stayed home from work for several days, spending all her time with the child, trying to coax a smile or a few words from her frightened lips. She played games with her, told her stories, bought her candy, and changed her clothes half a dozen times a day. Before Chun-ieng returned to work, the glazed look in her foster daughter's eyes was gone, but she looked terrified whenever Chun-ieng left the room. When Chun-ieng returned to Taipei, this second abandonment seemed too great for her daughter to bear. Day after day the child sat in the guest hall, her tiny body pulled up to occupy the smallest amount of space in the wicker chair, her eyes dully resting on the floor. The busy adults tried to lure her into activity and even the children treated her with special consideration, but nothing seemed to have any effect. When ordered to eat, she ate, but as soon as possible she would crawl back into the chair. She never cried and as far as I know never spoke. Her grief totally engulfed her. I am still haunted by that tiny figure of silent despair crouching in the shadows of the empty guest hall. Her despair was to me, and from their sad faces, to the Lims as well, a symbol of Chun-ieng's despair. Chun-ieng had at last accepted her mother's profession and turned her back on dreams of a normal life."	No evidence	x	young adult	conflict with mother, mostly about money	interpersonal confli,other	Evidence for	neglect	Evidence for	conflict with mother, mostly about money	ambivalently,pityingly	na	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	mother	unknown	na	Evidence against	poisoning	x	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence against	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	adult	mother	female	na	Evidence against	female	mother	Evidence for		no evidence	threat,plan	20	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	6	mother was a prostitute and didn't care for her properly	x	x	no	anger	x	her own mother threatens to kill her, mother well known for having a bad tempered	x	not stated	1	x	She should have looked wan and dejected, but instead she looked happier than I have ever seen her. She amiably satisfied the curiosity of her neighbors, saving the details of her adventure for the family. Her skill in story-telling did not suffer even when the story was at her own expense. After running out of the wine house, she bought some poison and went to a hotel. She gave us a humorous description of the delighted, if bewildered, pedi-cab driver to whom she gave the last of her money.	x	Evidence for	public	no	Evidence against	low,unknown	firsthand
183	zgarfield	Cultural model	Yakut	From the statistics on suicides, of which senile old people comprise the largest group, and from the complaints of these old people, which are often touching and deeply tragic, we can see how justified their fear of a lonely old age is:	Evidence for	x	elderly	x	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	na	na	unknown	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	lonely old age	x	x	x	na	x	senile old people	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		first person
183	syme	Cultural model	Yakut	From the statistics on suicides, of which senile old people comprise the largest group, and from the complaints of these old people, which are often touching and deeply tragic, we can see how justified their fear of a lonely old age is:	Evidence for	x	elderly	From the statistics on suicides, of which senile old people comprise the largest group, and from the complaints of these old people, which are often touching and deeply tragic, we can see how justified their fear of a lonely old age is:	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	both	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	chronic	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	no	 and from the complaints of these old people, which are often touching and deeply tragic	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	From the statistics on suicides, of which senile old people comprise the largest group, and from the complaints of these old people, which are often touching and deeply tragic, we can see how justified their fear of a lonely old age is:	No evidence	na	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	na
184	zgarfield	Cultural model	Yakut	[An unmarried woman] is doomed to perpetual submission and subject to the reproaches and exploitation of all her relatives: brothers, uncles, nephews, and in particular their wives and children. This is why Yakut women strive to marry, and are quite sincere in committing suicide at the death of even harsh and cruel husbands. An orphaned daughter or a young, childless widow is forced to wander from one guardian to another or to live with one of them in the role of a life-long, uncomplaining worker.	No evidence	x	adult	An unmarried woman] is doomed to perpetual submission and subject to the reproaches and exploitation of all her relatives: brothers, uncles, nephews, and in particular their wives and children. This is why Yakut women strive to marry, and are quite sincere in committing suicide at the death of even harsh and cruel husbands.	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	na	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	male	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	doomed to perpetual submission	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		unknown
184	syme	Cultural model	Yakut	[An unmarried woman] is doomed to perpetual submission and subject to the reproaches and exploitation of all her relatives: brothers, uncles, nephews, and in particular their wives and children. This is why Yakut women strive to marry, and are quite sincere in committing suicide at the death of even harsh and cruel husbands. An orphaned daughter or a young, childless widow is forced to wander from one guardian to another or to live with one of them in the role of a life-long, uncomplaining worker.	No evidence	x	unknown	 [An unmarried woman] is doomed to perpetual submission and subject to the reproaches and exploitation of all her relatives: brothers, uncles, nephews, and in particular their wives and children. This is why Yakut women strive to marry, and are quite sincere in committing suicide at the death of even harsh and cruel husbands. An orphaned daughter or a young, childless widow is forced to wander from one guardian to another or to live with one of them in the role of a life-long, uncomplaining worker.	interpersonal confli,death loved one,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	 [An unmarried woman] is doomed to perpetual submission and subject to the reproaches and exploitation of all her relatives: brothers, uncles, nephews, and in particular their wives and children. This is why Yakut women strive to marry, and are quite sincere in committing suicide at the death of even harsh and cruel husbands. An orphaned daughter or a young, childless widow is forced to wander from one guardian to another or to live with one of them in the role of a life-long, uncomplaining worker.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	ado_young_adult,adult,elder	kin	both	na	Evidence for	female	husband	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	low	na
186	zgarfield	Case	Highland Scots	"Perhaps the most heart-wrenching example of culture-linked mental illness was the case of one young man, prevented from leaving the community because he was the only son, who read widely and refrained from drinking, only to be told that the books would drive him mad, he was queer because he did not drink with the boys, and the tendency to go mad was ""in his people."" He once attended Gaelic plays but stopped because he said no one really cared about Gaelic, that it was dying out. He became very upset, experienced a kind of free-floating anxiety in which he talked about Gaelic-speakers who ""don't like to speak Gaelic; they don't like the image of the Gaels"" and about other things that did not make sense to the family. The doctor gave him sedatives and suggested he go to Craig Dunain ""for precautionary measures."" A neighbor took him over by boat and reported that he ""kept saying he had to get away from here."" The neighbor, who considered the visit a minor matter, was upset with the doctors for not letting him shave himself. ""The last thing he asked was, would I help his father bring in the sheep from the moor for dipping."" The young man was in his mid-twenties, and this was his second visit to Craig Dunain. During his first visit, he was given electric shock treatments and sent home with medicine cabinets full of sedatives. I had spent several afternoons on the moor near the shielings with him and his cousin from America, and we had listened to him expressing his bitterness over not being able to leave the island. When I left, I gave my car to someone who said he would teach him how to drive and then give him the car so he could at least have some mobility around the island; but within the year I received letters filled with the tragic news that the young man had thrown himself off the cliff and was dead. ""He ran out of the house. He said the stars were giving him shocks."" But it was not the cliffs that killed him; it was culture."	No evidence	x	young adult	"Perhaps the most heart-wrenching example of culture-linked mental illness was the case of one young man, prevented from leaving the community because he was the only son, who read widely and refrained from drinking, only to be told that the books would drive him mad, he was queer because he did not drink with the boys, and the tendency to go mad was ""in his people."""	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	"The young man was in his mid-twenties, and this was his second visit to Craig Dunain. During his first visit, he was given electric shock treatments and sent home with medicine cabinets full of sedatives...He said the stars were giving him shocks."" But it was not the cliffs that killed him; it was culture.
"	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		unknown	anxiety...bitterness over not being able to leave the island. 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence for		firsthand
186	syme	Case	Highland Scots	"Perhaps the most heart-wrenching example of culture-linked mental illness was the case of one young man, prevented from leaving the community because he was the only son, who read widely and refrained from drinking, only to be told that the books would drive him mad, he was queer because he did not drink with the boys, and the tendency to go mad was ""in his people."" He once attended Gaelic plays but stopped because he said no one really cared about Gaelic, that it was dying out. He became very upset, experienced a kind of free-floating anxiety in which he talked about Gaelic-speakers who ""don't like to speak Gaelic; they don't like the image of the Gaels"" and about other things that did not make sense to the family. The doctor gave him sedatives and suggested he go to Craig Dunain ""for precautionary measures."" A neighbor took him over by boat and reported that he ""kept saying he had to get away from here."" The neighbor, who considered the visit a minor matter, was upset with the doctors for not letting him shave himself. ""The last thing he asked was, would I help his father bring in the sheep from the moor for dipping."" The young man was in his mid-twenties, and this was his second visit to Craig Dunain. During his first visit, he was given electric shock treatments and sent home with medicine cabinets full of sedatives. I had spent several afternoons on the moor near the shielings with him and his cousin from America, and we had listened to him expressing his bitterness over not being able to leave the island. When I left, I gave my car to someone who said he would teach him how to drive and then give him the car so he could at least have some mobility around the island; but within the year I received letters filled with the tragic news that the young man had thrown himself off the cliff and was dead. ""He ran out of the house. He said the stars were giving him shocks."" But it was not the cliffs that killed him; it was culture."	No evidence	x	young adult,adult	"Perhaps the most heart-wrenching example of culture-linked mental illness was the case of one young man, prevented from leaving the community because he was the only son, who read widely and refrained from drinking, only to be told that the books would drive him mad, he was queer because he did not drink with the boys, and the tendency to go mad was ""in his people."" He once attended Gaelic plays but stopped because he said no one really cared about Gaelic, that it was dying out. He became very upset, experienced a kind of free-floating anxiety in which he talked about Gaelic-speakers who ""don't like to speak Gaelic; they don't like the image of the Gaels"" and about other things that did not make sense to the family. The doctor gave him sedatives and suggested he go to Craig Dunain ""for precautionary measures."" A neighbor took him over by boat and reported that he ""kept saying he had to get away from here."" The neighbor, who considered the visit a minor matter, was upset with the doctors for not letting him shave himself. ""The last thing he asked was, would I help his father bring in the sheep from the moor for dipping."" The young man was in his mid-twenties, and this was his second visit to Craig Dunain. During his first visit, he was given electric shock treatments and sent home with medicine cabinets full of sedatives. I had spent several afternoons on the moor near the shielings with him and his cousin from America, and we had listened to him expressing his bitterness over not being able to leave the island. When I left, I gave my car to someone who said he would teach him how to drive and then give him the car so he could at least have some mobility around the island; but within the year I received letters filled with the tragic news that the young man had thrown himself off the cliff and was dead. ""He ran out of the house. He said the stars were giving him shocks."" But it was not the cliffs that killed him; it was culture."	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	na	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	depression,gen anxiety disorder	Evidence against	jumping	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x			no evidence	completion	22-28	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	6	x	" he ""kept saying he had to get away from here."" "	x	no	" He once attended Gaelic plays but stopped because he said no one really cared about Gaelic, that it was dying out. He became very upset, experienced a kind of free-floating anxiety in which he talked about Gaelic-speakers who ""don't like to speak Gaelic; they don't like the image of the Gaels"" and about other things that did not make sense to the family. we had listened to him expressing his bitterness over not being able to leave the island."	" He once attended Gaelic plays but stopped because he said no one really cared about Gaelic, that it was dying out. He became very upset, experienced a kind of free-floating anxiety in which he talked about Gaelic-speakers who ""don't like to speak Gaelic; they don't like the image of the Gaels"" and about other things that did not make sense to the family. "	x	x	not stated	1	"Perhaps the most heart-wrenching example of culture-linked mental illness was the case of one young man, prevented from leaving the community because he was the only son, who read widely and refrained from drinking, only to be told that the books would drive him mad, he was queer because he did not drink with the boys, and the tendency to go mad was ""in his people.""... The doctor gave him sedatives and suggested he go to Craig Dunain ""for precautionary measures."" A neighbor took him over by boat and reported that he ""kept saying he had to get away from here."" The neighbor, who considered the visit a minor matter, was upset with the doctors for not letting him shave himself. ""The last thing he asked was, would I help his father bring in the sheep from the moor for dipping."" The young man was in his mid-twenties, and this was his second visit to Craig Dunain. During his first visit, he was given electric shock treatments and sent home with medicine cabinets full of sedatives. "	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	firsthand
189	zgarfield	Cultural model	Saami	Serious infatuation is out of place. When it does occur, and when it is not reciprocated, the young man may commit suicide. This is the only unambiguous context of suicide.	No evidence	x	young adult	Serious infatuation is out of place. When it does occur, and when it is not reciprocated, the young man may commit suicide. 	rejection	No evidence	na	No evidence	Serious infatuation is out of place. When it does occur, and when it is not reciprocated, the young man may commit suicide. 	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	ado_young_adult	social partners	female	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	infatuation	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		first person
189	syme	Cultural model	Saami	Serious infatuation is out of place. When it does occur, and when it is not reciprocated, the young man may commit suicide. This is the only unambiguous context of suicide.	No evidence	x	young adult	Serious infatuation is out of place. When it does occur, and when it is not reciprocated, the young man may commit suicide. This is the only unambiguous context of suicide.	rejection,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	no	Serious infatuation is out of place. When it does occur, and when it is not reciprocated, the young man may commit suicide. This is the only unambiguous context of suicide.	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
190	zgarfield	Case	Saami	Suicide is also very rare, though it is alleged that one man dying of tuberculosis killed himself some fifteen years ago.	Evidence for	x	adult	"Suicide is also very rare, though it is alleged that one man dying of tuberculosis killed himself some fifteen years ago.
"	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	severe	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	dying 	x	x	x 	not stated	1	x	 	dying of tuberculosis 	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		hearsay
190	syme	Case	Saami	Suicide is also very rare, though it is alleged that one man dying of tuberculosis killed himself some fifteen years ago.	Evidence for	x	unknown	Suicide is also very rare, though it is alleged that one man dying of tuberculosis killed himself some fifteen years ago.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	severe	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	tuberculosis 	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	hearsay
191	zgarfield	Case	Saami	But tho' it must be confess'd that the Drum is not so generally used for mischievous Purposes, yet are there too many who still employ it upon that Account.Johannes Torn[unknown] us declares positively, that in the Year, 1671. there were taken up several in theLapmark ofKiema , who had such Drums, of a prodigious Bigness.They surrendred , says he,their Drums, of such a vast Breadth and Compass, that they could not be removed from thence, but were burnt upon the Place . And as a confirmation of it, gives us the following Instance:There was , says he,among those Laplanders,one of about fourscore years of Age, who confess'd, that he had learn'd this Art from his Father, when yet a Child; and that in the year, 1670. upon some Quarrel with another Country Fellow of Kiema,about a Pair of Mittens, he caused him to be dromned in a Cataract. Whereupon being condemned to Death, he was carried in Chains out of Lapland,to be Executed in the next Town of Bethnia;but whilst they were upon the Road, he found means to kill himself by the help of his Sorcery, he being but a Moment before found very healthy and lasty, which [p. 150] indeed be bad foretold he would do, rather than fall into the Hands of the Executioner . But what Rites or Ceremonies, Words, Signs or Postures they observe upon this Account, I have not been able to learn from those, from whom I have received the rest belonging to the use of the Drums. The reason of which, as I suppose, is, that they keep it very Secret, and that no Body can be inftructed in the management of this Point, without lying under a great suspition of bearing a Share in this most abominable Art.	Evidence for	x	elderly	Whereupon being condemned to Death, he was carried in Chains out of Lapland,to be Executed in the next Town of Bethnia;but whilst they were upon the Road, he found means to kill himself by the help of his Sorcery, he being but a Moment before found very healthy and lasty, which [p. 150] indeed be bad foretold he would do, rather than fall into the Hands of the Executioner . 	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Instance:There was , says he,among those Laplanders,one of about fourscore years of Age, who confess'd, that he had learn'd this Art from his Father, when yet a Child; and that in the year, 1670. upon some Quarrel with another Country Fellow of Kiema,about a Pair of Mittens, he caused him to be dromned in a Cataract.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated,will to die	he being but a Moment before found very healthy and lasty, which [p. 150] indeed be bad foretold he would do, rather than fall into the Hands of the Executioner .	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	no	No evidence		unknown
191	syme	Case	Saami	But tho' it must be confess'd that the Drum is not so generally used for mischievous Purposes, yet are there too many who still employ it upon that Account.Johannes Torn[unknown] us declares positively, that in the Year, 1671. there were taken up several in theLapmark ofKiema , who had such Drums, of a prodigious Bigness.They surrendred , says he,their Drums, of such a vast Breadth and Compass, that they could not be removed from thence, but were burnt upon the Place . And as a confirmation of it, gives us the following Instance:There was , says he,among those Laplanders,one of about fourscore years of Age, who confess'd, that he had learn'd this Art from his Father, when yet a Child; and that in the year, 1670. upon some Quarrel with another Country Fellow of Kiema,about a Pair of Mittens, he caused him to be dromned in a Cataract. Whereupon being condemned to Death, he was carried in Chains out of Lapland,to be Executed in the next Town of Bethnia;but whilst they were upon the Road, he found means to kill himself by the help of his Sorcery, he being but a Moment before found very healthy and lasty, which [p. 150] indeed be bad foretold he would do, rather than fall into the Hands of the Executioner . But what Rites or Ceremonies, Words, Signs or Postures they observe upon this Account, I have not been able to learn from those, from whom I have received the rest belonging to the use of the Drums. The reason of which, as I suppose, is, that they keep it very Secret, and that no Body can be inftructed in the management of this Point, without lying under a great suspition of bearing a Share in this most abominable Art.	No evidence	x	adult	There was , says he,among those Laplanders,one of about fourscore years of Age, who confess'd, that he had learn'd this Art from his Father, when yet a Child; and that in the year, 1670. upon some Quarrel with another Country Fellow of Kiema,about a Pair of Mittens, he caused him to be dromned in a Cataract. Whereupon being condemned to Death, he was carried in Chains out of Lapland,to be Executed in the next Town of Bethnia;but whilst they were upon the Road, he found means to kill himself by the help of his Sorcery, he being but a Moment before found very healthy and lasty, which [p. 150] indeed be bad foretold he would do, rather than fall into the Hands of the Executioner . 	enslavement_capture,accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na		No evidence	not stated	but whilst they were upon the Road, he found means to kill himself by the help of his Sorcery, he being but a Moment before found very healthy and lasty, which [p. 150] indeed be bad foretold he would do, rather than fall into the Hands of the Executioner .	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		perpetrate violence	completion	40	Evidence against	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	witchcraft,commit homicide	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	low	documented_account
192	zgarfield	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (18) alcoholism and gambling, and others.	No evidence	x	adult	"Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (18) alcoholism and gambling, and others.
"	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	"Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (18) alcoholism and gambling, and others.
"		x	x		na	x	x	x		not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		firsthand
192	syme	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (18) alcoholism and gambling, and others.	No evidence	x	unknown	spiritual battle (18) alcoholism and gambling, and others.	spirit attack,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	substance abuse	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	(18) alcoholism and gambling, and others.	x	x	x	gambling	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	alcoholism	x	x	No evidence	private	no	No evidence	unknown	na
194	zgarfield	Case	Kuna	During the past ten years or so, there have been at least [p. 130] six cases of suicide on Ustuppu and Okop Sukkun, all of which have been caused by demons.	No evidence	x	adult	uring the past ten years or so, there have been at least [p. 130] six cases of suicide on Ustuppu and Okop Sukkun, all of which have been caused by demons.	spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	uring the past ten years or so, there have been at least [p. 130] six cases of suicide on Ustuppu and Okop Sukkun, all of which have been caused by demons.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x 	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	1	x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	uring the past ten years or so, there have been at least [p. 130] six cases of suicide on Ustuppu and Okop Sukkun, all of which have been caused by demons.	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		unknown
194	syme	Case	Kuna	During the past ten years or so, there have been at least [p. 130] six cases of suicide on Ustuppu and Okop Sukkun, all of which have been caused by demons.	No evidence	x	unknown	During the past ten years or so, there have been at least [p. 130] six cases of suicide on Ustuppu and Okop Sukkun, all of which have been caused by demons.	spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	6,rate	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	1	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	na	x	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence	unknown	unknown
195	zgarfield	Cultural model	Kuna	"Acts of homicide and suicide are not carried out by ""rational"" people, but by people who have had their purpakana corrupted by ponikana [illness spirits] The victim of demon attack is reputed to have the strength of several men and frequently turns on those around him; he may also take his own life. During the past ten years or so, there have been at least [p. 130] six cases of suicide on Ustuppu and Okop Sukkun, all of which have been caused by demons. The demons approached their victims, found them vulnerable in an already despondent state, and persuaded them to take their own lives."	No evidence	x	adult	"The victim of demon attack is reputed to have the strength of several men and frequently turns on those around him; he may also take his own life. During the past ten years or so, there have been at least [p. 130] six cases of suicide on Ustuppu and Okop Sukkun, all of which have been caused by demons. The demons approached their victims, found them vulnerable in an already despondent state, and persuaded them to take their own lives.
"	spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	vulnerable in an already despondent state	x	x	x	not stated	1	"During the past ten years or so, there have been at least [p. 130] six cases of suicide on Ustuppu and Okop Sukkun, all of which have been caused by demons. The demons approached their victims, found them vulnerable in an already despondent state, and persuaded them to take their own lives.
"	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		unknown
195	syme	Cultural model	Kuna	"Acts of homicide and suicide are not carried out by ""rational"" people, but by people who have had their purpakana corrupted by ponikana [illness spirits] The victim of demon attack is reputed to have the strength of several men and frequently turns on those around him; he may also take his own life. During the past ten years or so, there have been at least [p. 130] six cases of suicide on Ustuppu and Okop Sukkun, all of which have been caused by demons. The demons approached their victims, found them vulnerable in an already despondent state, and persuaded them to take their own lives."	No evidence	x	unknown	"Acts of homicide and suicide are not carried out by ""rational"" people, but by people who have had their purpakana corrupted by ponikana [illness spirits] The victim of demon attack is reputed to have the strength of several men and frequently turns on those around him; he may also take his own life. During the past ten years or so, there have been at least [p. 130] six cases of suicide on Ustuppu and Okop Sukkun, all of which have been caused by demons. The demons approached their victims, found them vulnerable in an already despondent state, and persuaded them to take their own lives"	spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown,fearfully	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	1	x	"Acts of homicide and suicide are not carried out by ""rational"" people, but by people who have had their purpakana corrupted by ponikana [illness spirits] "	x	unknown	The demons approached their victims, found them vulnerable in an already despondent state, and persuaded them to take their own lives	despondent	x	x	not stated	1	The demons approached their victims, found them vulnerable in an already despondent state, and persuaded them to take their own lives	x	x	No evidence	na	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
196	zgarfield	Cultural model	Kuna	all of the [suicide] victims were persuaded by demons to take their lives	No evidence	x	unknown	all of the [suicide] victims were persuaded by demons to take their lives	spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	xx	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	all of the [suicide] victims were persuaded by demons to take their lives	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
196	syme	Cultural model	Kuna	all of the [suicide] victims were persuaded by demons to take their lives	No evidence	x	unknown	demons	spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	na	x	x	x	x	na	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence	unknown	na
199	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tarahumara	When worries disturb him, he gets drunk. If there is no tesguino, he goes off by himself for a long walk that may last several days. If he still cannot shake his worries, he may hang himself.	No evidence	x	unknown	When worries disturb him, he gets drunk. If there is no tesguino, he goes off by himself for a long walk that may last several days. If he still cannot shake his worries, he may hang himself.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	When worries disturb him, he gets drunk. If there is no tesguino, he goes off by himself for a long walk that may last several days. If he still cannot shake his worries, he may hang himself.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	depression	na	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	unknown	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	plan	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	When worries disturb him, he gets drunk. 		x	x		unknown	disturb him, worries 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
199	syme	Cultural model	Tarahumara	When worries disturb him, he gets drunk. If there is no tesguino, he goes off by himself for a long walk that may last several days. If he still cannot shake his worries, he may hang himself.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	substance abuse	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	alcohol, going off alone	x	x	x	x	unknown	worry	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	private	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	unknown
200	zgarfield	Case	Tarahumara	For example, a stepfather in a rage killed a young child of his second wife. For several days after that he brooded over the possible consequences of his act, and then suddenly hanged himself.	No evidence	x	adult	For example, a stepfather in a rage killed a young child of his second wife. For several days after that he brooded over the possible consequences of his act, and then suddenly hanged himself.	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	For example, a stepfather in a rage killed a young child of his second wife. For several days after that he brooded over the possible consequences of his act, and then suddenly hanged himself.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		unknown	rage, he brooded 	"For several days after that he brooded over the possible consequences of his act, and then suddenly hanged himself.
"	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
200	syme	Case	Tarahumara	For example, a stepfather in a rage killed a young child of his second wife. For several days after that he brooded over the possible consequences of his act, and then suddenly hanged himself.	Evidence for	x	adult	For example, a stepfather in a rage killed a young child of his second wife. For several days after that he brooded over the possible consequences of his act, and then suddenly hanged himself.	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	hanging	For example, a stepfather in a rage killed a young child of his second wife. For several days after that he brooded over the possible consequences of his act, and then suddenly hanged himself.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	For example, a stepfather in a rage killed a young child of his second wife. For several days after that he brooded over the possible consequences of his act, and then suddenly hanged himself.	5	x	For example, a stepfather in a rage killed a young child of his second wife. For several days after that he brooded over the possible consequences of his act, and then suddenly hanged himself.	commit homicide	unknown	For example, a stepfather in a rage killed a young child of his second wife. For several days after that he brooded over the possible consequences of his act, and then suddenly hanged himself.	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
201	zgarfield	Case	Tarahumara	Prudentia Orgega (age fourteen) hung herself with a sash. Her parents refused to permit her to marry the boy of her choice. They insisted that they needed her at home to work.	No evidence	x	young adult	Prudentia Orgega (age fourteen) hung herself with a sash. Her parents refused to permit her to marry the boy of her choice. 	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Prudentia Orgega (age fourteen) hung herself with a sash. Her parents refused to permit her to marry the boy of her choice. 	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	14	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		firsthand
201	syme	Case	Tarahumara	Prudentia Orgega (age fourteen) hung herself with a sash. Her parents refused to permit her to marry the boy of her choice. They insisted that they needed her at home to work.	No evidence	x	young adult	Prudentia Orgega (age fourteen) hung herself with a sash. Her parents refused to permit her to marry the boy of her choice. They insisted that they needed her at home to work.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Prudentia Orgega (age fourteen) hung herself with a sash. Her parents refused to permit her to marry the boy of her choice. They insisted that they needed her at home to work.	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	14	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	average,unknown	unknown
202	zgarfield	Case	Tarahumara	Jose Maria (age fifteen) was severely scolded by his mother for selling some corn from the storage bin without notifying her. He reacted to the rebuke by attempting to beat her, but he was stopped by the intervention of his older brother. He then ran away to the mountains where he hung himself.	No evidence	x	young adult	Jose Maria (age fifteen) was severely scolded by his mother for selling some corn from the storage bin without notifying her. He reacted to the rebuke by attempting to beat her, but he was stopped by the intervention of his older brother. He then ran away to the mountains where he hung himself.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Jose Maria (age fifteen) was severely scolded by his mother for selling some corn from the storage bin without notifying her. He reacted to the rebuke by attempting to beat her, but he was stopped by the intervention of his older brother. He then ran away to the mountains where he hung himself.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	female	na	No evidence	male		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	15	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	private	no	Evidence against		firsthand
202	syme	Case	Tarahumara	Jose Maria (age fifteen) was severely scolded by his mother for selling some corn from the storage bin without notifying her. He reacted to the rebuke by attempting to beat her, but he was stopped by the intervention of his older brother. He then ran away to the mountains where he hung himself.	Evidence for	x	young adult	Jose Maria (age fifteen) was severely scolded by his mother for selling some corn from the storage bin without notifying her. He reacted to the rebuke by attempting to beat her, but he was stopped by the intervention of his older brother. He then ran away to the mountains where he hung himself.	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Jose Maria (age fifteen) was severely scolded by his mother for selling some corn from the storage bin without notifying her. He reacted to the rebuke by attempting to beat her, but he was stopped by the intervention of his older brother. He then ran away to the mountains where he hung himself.	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	adult	mother	female	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	15	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	He reacted to the rebuke by attempting to beat her, but he was stopped by the intervention of his older brother. He then ran away to the mountains where he hung himself.	6	x	x	x	no	He reacted to the rebuke by attempting to beat her	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for		unknown	No evidence	average,unknown	unknown
203	zgarfield	Case	Tarahumara	Vidal was caring for the child of his friend whose wife had recently died. The child wandered away from the house and Vidal could not find her. Vidal's father used this opportunity to seek revenge against his son with whom he had quarreled. He taunted Vidal with false tales that the native officials would punish him severely. Vidal brooded over these taunts for several days, then hung himself. His friend had no intention of reporting the matter to the gobernador. (Santa Anita.)	No evidence	x	adult	Vidal was caring for the child of his friend whose wife had recently died. The child wandered away from the house and Vidal could not find her. Vidal's father used this opportunity to seek revenge against his son with whom he had quarreled. He taunted Vidal with false tales that the native officials would punish him severely. Vidal brooded over these taunts for several days, then hung himself	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Vidal was caring for the child of his friend whose wife had recently died. The child wandered away from the house and Vidal could not find her. Vidal's father used this opportunity to seek revenge against his son with whom he had quarreled. He taunted Vidal with false tales that the native officials would punish him severely. Vidal brooded over these taunts for several days, then hung himself	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	He taunted Vidal with false tales that the native officials would punish him severely. Vidal brooded over these taunts for several days, then hung himself.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	political power	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	brooded	He taunted Vidal with false tales that the native officials would punish him severely. Vidal brooded over these taunts for several days, then hung himself.	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
203	syme	Case	Tarahumara	Vidal was caring for the child of his friend whose wife had recently died. The child wandered away from the house and Vidal could not find her. Vidal's father used this opportunity to seek revenge against his son with whom he had quarreled. He taunted Vidal with false tales that the native officials would punish him severely. Vidal brooded over these taunts for several days, then hung himself. His friend had no intention of reporting the matter to the gobernador. (Santa Anita.)	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,unknown	Vidal was caring for the child of his friend whose wife had recently died. The child wandered away from the house and Vidal could not find her. Vidal's father used this opportunity to seek revenge against his son with whom he had quarreled. He taunted Vidal with false tales that the native officials would punish him severely. Vidal brooded over these taunts for several days, then hung himself. His friend had no intention of reporting the matter to the gobernador. (Santa Anita.)	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na		Vidal was caring for the child of his friend whose wife had recently died. The child wandered away from the house and Vidal could not find her. Vidal's father used this opportunity to seek revenge against his son with whom he had quarreled. He taunted Vidal with false tales that the native officials would punish him severely. Vidal brooded over these taunts for several days, then hung himself. His friend had no intention of reporting the matter to the gobernador. (Santa Anita.)	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult,elder,unknown	father	male	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	6	x	Vidal brooded over these taunts for several days, then hung himself.	x	unknown	Vidal brooded over these taunts for several days, then hung himself. 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	His friend had no intention of reporting the matter to the gobernador. (Santa Anita.)	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence	average,unknown	unknown
204	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tarahumara	The Tarahumara themselves explain cases of suicide as being caused by a condition they call 'sadness.' This morose condition is caused by excessive brooding over some problem or frustration that cannot be resolved.	No evidence	x	na	The Tarahumara themselves explain cases of suicide as being caused by a condition they call 'sadness.' This morose condition is caused by excessive brooding over some problem or frustration that cannot be resolved.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The Tarahumara themselves explain cases of suicide as being caused by a condition they call 'sadness.' This morose condition is caused by excessive brooding over some problem or frustration that cannot be resolved.	unknown	emic	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	depression,other,unknown	No evidence	not stated	The Tarahumara themselves explain cases of suicide as being caused by a condition they call 'sadness.' This morose condition is caused by excessive brooding over some problem or frustration that cannot be resolved.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	unknown	na	na	No evidence	na		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	brooding over some problem or frustration 	The Tarahumara themselves explain cases of suicide as being caused by a condition they call 'sadness.' This morose condition is caused by excessive brooding over some problem or frustration that cannot be resolved.	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		na
204	syme	Cultural model	Tarahumara	The Tarahumara themselves explain cases of suicide as being caused by a condition they call 'sadness.' This morose condition is caused by excessive brooding over some problem or frustration that cannot be resolved.	No evidence	x	unknown	The Tarahumara themselves explain cases of suicide as being caused by a condition they call 'sadness.' This morose condition is caused by excessive brooding over some problem or frustration that cannot be resolved.	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	depression	No evidence	not stated	The Tarahumara themselves explain cases of suicide as being caused by a condition they call 'sadness.' This morose condition is caused by excessive brooding over some problem or frustration that cannot be resolved.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	The Tarahumara themselves explain cases of suicide as being caused by a condition they call 'sadness.' This morose condition is caused by excessive brooding over some problem or frustration that cannot be resolved.	x	unknown	The Tarahumara themselves explain cases of suicide as being caused by a condition they call 'sadness.' This morose condition is caused by excessive brooding over some problem or frustration that cannot be resolved.	The Tarahumara themselves explain cases of suicide as being caused by a condition they call 'sadness.' This morose condition is caused by excessive brooding over some problem or frustration that cannot be resolved.	x	x	not stated	1	The Tarahumara themselves explain cases of suicide as being caused by a condition they call 'sadness.' This morose condition is caused by excessive brooding over some problem or frustration that cannot be resolved.	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
205	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tarahumara	Children when beaten, shamed, or badly scolded often run away from home. In some cases they may actually commit suicide.	Evidence for	x	child	Children when beaten, shamed, or badly scolded often run away from home. In some cases they may actually commit suicide.	interpersonal confli	Evidence for	physical abuse	No evidence	Children when beaten, shamed, or badly scolded often run away from home. In some cases they may actually commit suicide.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	physical abuse	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		no	shamed	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
205	syme	Cultural model	Tarahumara	Children when beaten, shamed, or badly scolded often run away from home. In some cases they may actually commit suicide.	Evidence for	x	child,young adult	Children when beaten, shamed, or badly scolded often run away from home. In some cases they may actually commit suicide.	accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	superior	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	run away	x	Children when beaten, shamed, or badly scolded often run away from home. In some cases they may actually commit suicide.	x	x	no	shamed	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
206	zgarfield	Case	Tarahumara	At one time there was a veritable epidemic of suicides among the Indians near Guachochic, the men hanging themselves with their girdles; one of them even suspended himself by the feet.	No evidence	x	adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	unknown	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	many	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
206	syme	Case	Tarahumara	At one time there was a veritable epidemic of suicides among the Indians near Guachochic, the men hanging themselves with their girdles; one of them even suspended himself by the feet.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	na	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	episode of suicide epidemic	na	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
207	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tarahumara	Suicide is never committed unless a person is drunk and angered by some slight or by jealousy.	No evidence	x	unknown	Suicide is never committed unless a person is drunk and angered by some slight or by jealousy.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Suicide is never committed unless a person is drunk and angered by some slight or by jealousy.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	unknown	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	unknown	no evidence of ailme	Suicide is never committed unless a person is drunk		x	x		unknown	 angered by some slight or by jealousy.	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		unknown
207	syme	Cultural model	Tarahumara	Suicide is never committed unless a person is drunk and angered by some slight or by jealousy.	No evidence	x	unknown	Suicide is never committed unless a person is drunk and angered by some slight or by jealousy.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Suicide is never committed unless a person is drunk and angered by some slight or by jealousy.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	unknown	x	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	alcohol use	x	x	x	drunk at time	unknown	anger, jealousy	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
208	zgarfield	Case	Tarahumara	"Once I was present at the burial-feast for a man who had hanged himself a fortnight before, while under the influence of liquor and angry over some property out of which he considered himself cheated. He had changed into a lion. Two men and two women carried food and tesvino; the wife did not go with them, as [p. 388] the deceased had died alone, and she was afraid of being carried off by him. His father-in-law led the procession, carrying a goat-skin with its four feet remaining. The animal had belonged to the deceased and had been sacrificed for him, and the skin was to be given to him that in his new life he might rest on it. The suicide had been buried in a little cave with his feet toward the entrance. Having deposited the food near the dead man's head, the women sat down on a stone inside, while the men stood up near the mouth of the cave, all faces turned toward the grave. The father-in-law seated himself on a stone near the feet of the dead. It was a dreary winter evening in the Sierra and the scene was singularly impressive. The old man was a strong personality, powerfully built, and a shaman of great reputation, who in his entire bearing showed his determination to keep the dead at bay. He seemed to exercise a reassuring influence over the whole assembly. I shall not easily forget the solemn and convincing way in which he upbraided the dead for his rash act. Taking the reed flower from his hair and holding it in his right hand, he waved it down and up, as if swayed by the force of his own thoughts, in accentuating his points, and he talked and argued with the dead for a quarter of an hour. The man was a great orator, and spoke so earnestly that my interpreter Nabor was affected almost to tears. The speech was a kind of dialogue with the dead, the speaker supplying the responses himself, and this is the gist of it:Why are you there?--Because I am dead.--Why are you dead?--Because I died.--Why did you die?--Because I chose to.--That is not right. You have no shame. Did your mother, who gave you birth, tell you to do this? you get for it, lying there, as you are, with stones on top of you? Were you not just playing the violin in the house with us? Why did you hang yourself in the tree?Here I leave this tesvino and food for you, the meat and tortillas, that you may eat and not come back. We do not want you any more. You are a fool. Now I am going to leave you here. You are not going to drink tesvino in the house with us any more. Remain here! Do not come to the house, for it would do you no good; we would burn you. Good-bye, go now; we do not want you any more! All present then said good-bye to him, and all the women added, ""Fool!"" and then they all ran quickly into a deep water-hole, splashing into it clothes and all, that nothing from the dead might attach itself to them. They changed their wet attire after their arrival at the house. Later in the evening a magnificent hikuli feast was held. The Indians sat around the big fire, which cast a magical light over the tall old pine-trees around the patio, while the dancers moved about in their fantastic way through the red glow. Such a scene makes a deeper impression than any that could be produced on the stage."	No evidence	x	adult	Once I was present at the burial-feast for a man who had hanged himself a fortnight before, while under the influence of liquor and angry over some property out of which he considered himself cheated. 	interpersonal confli,resource loss	No evidence	na	No evidence	Once I was present at the burial-feast for a man who had hanged himself a fortnight before, while under the influence of liquor and angry over some property out of which he considered himself cheated. 	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	angry, cheated	x	x	. His father-in-law led the procession, carrying a goat-skin with its four feet remaining. The animal had belonged to the deceased and had been sacrificed for him, and the skin was to be given to him that in his new life he might rest on it. The suicide had been buried in a little cave with his feet toward the entrance. Having deposited the food near the dead man's head, the women sat down on a stone inside, while the men stood up near the mouth of the cave, all faces turned toward the grave. 	yes	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
208	syme	Case	Tarahumara	"Once I was present at the burial-feast for a man who had hanged himself a fortnight before, while under the influence of liquor and angry over some property out of which he considered himself cheated. He had changed into a lion. Two men and two women carried food and tesvino; the wife did not go with them, as [p. 388] the deceased had died alone, and she was afraid of being carried off by him. His father-in-law led the procession, carrying a goat-skin with its four feet remaining. The animal had belonged to the deceased and had been sacrificed for him, and the skin was to be given to him that in his new life he might rest on it. The suicide had been buried in a little cave with his feet toward the entrance. Having deposited the food near the dead man's head, the women sat down on a stone inside, while the men stood up near the mouth of the cave, all faces turned toward the grave. The father-in-law seated himself on a stone near the feet of the dead. It was a dreary winter evening in the Sierra and the scene was singularly impressive. The old man was a strong personality, powerfully built, and a shaman of great reputation, who in his entire bearing showed his determination to keep the dead at bay. He seemed to exercise a reassuring influence over the whole assembly. I shall not easily forget the solemn and convincing way in which he upbraided the dead for his rash act. Taking the reed flower from his hair and holding it in his right hand, he waved it down and up, as if swayed by the force of his own thoughts, in accentuating his points, and he talked and argued with the dead for a quarter of an hour. The man was a great orator, and spoke so earnestly that my interpreter Nabor was affected almost to tears. The speech was a kind of dialogue with the dead, the speaker supplying the responses himself, and this is the gist of it:Why are you there?--Because I am dead.--Why are you dead?--Because I died.--Why did you die?--Because I chose to.--That is not right. You have no shame. Did your mother, who gave you birth, tell you to do this? you get for it, lying there, as you are, with stones on top of you? Were you not just playing the violin in the house with us? Why did you hang yourself in the tree?Here I leave this tesvino and food for you, the meat and tortillas, that you may eat and not come back. We do not want you any more. You are a fool. Now I am going to leave you here. You are not going to drink tesvino in the house with us any more. Remain here! Do not come to the house, for it would do you no good; we would burn you. Good-bye, go now; we do not want you any more! All present then said good-bye to him, and all the women added, ""Fool!"" and then they all ran quickly into a deep water-hole, splashing into it clothes and all, that nothing from the dead might attach itself to them. They changed their wet attire after their arrival at the house. Later in the evening a magnificent hikuli feast was held. The Indians sat around the big fire, which cast a magical light over the tall old pine-trees around the patio, while the dancers moved about in their fantastic way through the red glow. Such a scene makes a deeper impression than any that could be produced on the stage."	No evidence	neutral	adult,unknown	Once I was present at the burial-feast for a man who had hanged himself a fortnight before, while under the influence of liquor and angry over some property out of which he considered himself cheated. 	interpersonal confli,resource loss	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Once I was present at the burial-feast for a man who had hanged himself a fortnight before, while under the influence of liquor and angry over some property out of which he considered himself cheated. 	disapprovingly,fearfully	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence against	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x	drunk at time	unknown	anger	x	x	The suicide had been buried in a little cave with his feet toward the entrance. 	not stated	1	x	"Two men and two women carried food and tesvino; the wife did not go with them, as [p. 388] the deceased had died alone, and she was afraid of being carried off by him. His father-in-law led the procession, carrying a goat-skin with its four feet remaining. The animal had belonged to the deceased and had been sacrificed for him, and the skin was to be given to him that in his new life he might rest on it. The suicide had been buried in a little cave with his feet toward the entrance. Having deposited the food near the dead man's head, the women sat down on a stone inside, while the men stood up near the mouth of the cave, all faces turned toward the grave. The father-in-law seated himself on a stone near the feet of the dead. It was a dreary winter evening in the Sierra and the scene was singularly impressive. The old man was a strong personality, powerfully built, and a shaman of great reputation, who in his entire bearing showed his determination to keep the dead at bay. He seemed to exercise a reassuring influence over the whole assembly. I shall not easily forget the solemn and convincing way in which he upbraided the dead for his rash act. Taking the reed flower from his hair and holding it in his right hand, he waved it down and up, as if swayed by the force of his own thoughts, in accentuating his points, and he talked and argued with the dead for a quarter of an hour. The man was a great orator, and spoke so earnestly that my interpreter Nabor was affected almost to tears. The speech was a kind of dialogue with the dead, the speaker supplying the responses himself, and this is the gist of it:Why are you there?--Because I am dead.--Why are you dead?--Because I died.--Why did you die?--Because I chose to.--That is not right. You have no shame. Did your mother, who gave you birth, tell you to do this? you get for it, lying there, as you are, with stones on top of you? Were you not just playing the violin in the house with us? Why did you hang yourself in the tree?Here I leave this tesvino and food for you, the meat and tortillas, that you may eat and not come back. We do not want you any more. You are a fool. Now I am going to leave you here. You are not going to drink tesvino in the house with us any more. Remain here! Do not come to the house, for it would do you no good; we would burn you. Good-bye, go now; we do not want you any more! All present then said good-bye to him, and all the women added, ""Fool!"" and then they all ran quickly into a deep water-hole, splashing into it clothes and all, that nothing from the dead might attach itself to them. They changed their wet attire after their arrival at the house. Later in the evening a magnificent hikuli feast was held. The Indians sat around the big fire, which cast a magical light over the tall old pine-trees around the patio, while the dancers moved about in their fantastic way through the red glow. Such a scene makes a deeper impression than any that could be produced on the stage."	x	No evidence	private	no	No evidence	average,unknown	firsthand
209	zgarfield	Case	Tzeltal	Since suicide is absent, except for a single case of a madman,	No evidence	x	adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	unknown	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x 	No evidence		no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	Since suicide is absent, except for a single case of a madman,	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
209	syme	Case	Tzeltal	Since suicide is absent, except for a single case of a madman,	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	unknown	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
216	zgarfield	Case	Blackfoot	"Even now Charcoal knew his brothers would be there to guide and help him. He was almost at the end of his journey; all he asked were food, rest, and information about his wife. In an hour, perhaps two, it would all be over; his physical body could be thrown away while his warrior spirit would go to the land of the dead. As the days passed, he had given himself over more and more to the spirit world, his only links with reality being his rifle and his brothers. If everything and everyone else deserted him, these would remain his friends until his work was done. There was silence in the camp and, curiously, a pale light in Left Hand's cabin. Like his coyote brother, Charcoal was suspicious of anything out of the ordinary; to keep a lamp lit at four o'clock in the morning was not normal. The Indian circled the cabin, watching for signs of movement, looking for a trap. Perhaps the cabin was filled with policemen, not his brothers. Yet the snow revealed only a few scattered tracks of moccasined feet, no heavy bootprints nor the marks of many scouts. Tying his pinto to a tree about fifty yards away, Charcoal walked silently to the cabin and knocked. No answer. He knocked again. As the door slowly swung open, the fugitive relaxed for a moment when he saw the familiar face of his brother, Left Hand. Then the muscles of his face tightened, his eyes narrowed, and his voice was flat and hard. ""You have betrayed me!""1 Left Hand, his own brother, was standing before him fully clothed in the middle of the night. He was waiting to trap him! Quickly Charcoal turned and dashed to his horse, his brother following at his heels. ""There's no use,"" Left Hand called. ""Mr. Steele and Mr. Wilson told me you'd better give yourself up. It'll be better for you!"" ""No, I won't. I'm going on.""2 Left Hand wrapped his arms around his brother, pulling him away from the horse. At this first act of violence, Charcoal tried to raise his rifle but the brother called for help; moments later Left Hand's wife and Bear Back Bone were upon the desperate man, tearing away his rifle, grabbing his butcher knife, and wrestling him to the ground. In dismay Charcoal struggled with his brothers. He had beaten the police, the scouts, the ranchers, everyone. Of all people, his brothers understood his mission, his need to kill a chief and his faithless wife. They knew about his wish to go to the Sand Hills as a leader, and they realized what would happen to his spirit if the police captured and hanged him. This thing couldn't be happening! He felt his body being pushed and dragged through the snow toward the cabin; his arms [p. 150] pinioned at his sides; his sister-in-law, his fat sister-in-law, sitting squarely on his shoulders. It was no dream; it was real. At that moment, his rifle gone, betrayed by his brothers, Charcoal surrendered to the real world. ""I give up,"" he said to Left Hand. ""Now you can be a chief for catching me.""3 All fight left him as he lay on the earthen floor, a tired and beaten man. He heard his brother shout for White Buffalo Chief, Big Plume, and Willie Red Crow to help him, that he had captured Charoal. A little later, White Man Left, Calf Chief, and Chief Moon arrived, curiously watching their onetime friend who now lay before them like a gaunt, trapped animal. Charcoal was allowed to sit in a chair, and there, huddled down with his hood pulled over his head, the exhausted man appeared to sleep while waiting for the police to come from Standoff. There was no hope now of killing Pretty Wolverine Woman; in fact, Left Hand had told him the police had locked her up in Macleod. Cautiously, with a movement so slight that it scarcely disturbed his winter coat, Charcoal grasped an awl which was hidden in his clothes. He didn't want this body any longer; his brothers could have it. The sharp point of the awl pierced through the skin of his arm and into a vein. And again. Chief Moon, sitting on a woodpile near the door, saw something moving on the floor. It looked like a dark, dirt-covered worm. ""What's that?"" he asked. ""Where?""4 When they raised Charcoal's coat to discover what was causing the shifting soil, they saw a sprawling pool of blood under his chair. When his coat was pulled back, the blood came spurting from his arm. Charcoal weakly tried to push them away, but they covered his wounds with flour and bound them with strips of cotton. Why didn't they let him die? Even the coyote, after it had taunted its last dog, stolen its last food, killed its last enemy was allowed to die as it wished. It might crawl into a cave, be torn apart by a savage pack of dogs, or even be destroyed by its own kind. Charcoal's adventure was over and he wanted to die; he was ready to abandon this world in which no one wanted him to stay. Why didn't they let him die?"	No evidence	x	adult	s the days passed, he had given himself over more and more to the spirit world, his only links with reality being his rifle and his brothers...Charcoal's adventure was over and he wanted to die; he was ready to abandon this world in which no one wanted him to stay. Why didn't they let him die?	unknown	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 He had beaten the police, the scouts, the ranchers, everyone. Of all people, his brothers understood his mission, his need to kill a chief and his faithless wife. 	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	plan	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
216	syme	Case	Blackfoot	"Even now Charcoal knew his brothers would be there to guide and help him. He was almost at the end of his journey; all he asked were food, rest, and information about his wife. In an hour, perhaps two, it would all be over; his physical body could be thrown away while his warrior spirit would go to the land of the dead. As the days passed, he had given himself over more and more to the spirit world, his only links with reality being his rifle and his brothers. If everything and everyone else deserted him, these would remain his friends until his work was done. There was silence in the camp and, curiously, a pale light in Left Hand's cabin. Like his coyote brother, Charcoal was suspicious of anything out of the ordinary; to keep a lamp lit at four o'clock in the morning was not normal. The Indian circled the cabin, watching for signs of movement, looking for a trap. Perhaps the cabin was filled with policemen, not his brothers. Yet the snow revealed only a few scattered tracks of moccasined feet, no heavy bootprints nor the marks of many scouts. Tying his pinto to a tree about fifty yards away, Charcoal walked silently to the cabin and knocked. No answer. He knocked again. As the door slowly swung open, the fugitive relaxed for a moment when he saw the familiar face of his brother, Left Hand. Then the muscles of his face tightened, his eyes narrowed, and his voice was flat and hard. ""You have betrayed me!""1 Left Hand, his own brother, was standing before him fully clothed in the middle of the night. He was waiting to trap him! Quickly Charcoal turned and dashed to his horse, his brother following at his heels. ""There's no use,"" Left Hand called. ""Mr. Steele and Mr. Wilson told me you'd better give yourself up. It'll be better for you!"" ""No, I won't. I'm going on.""2 Left Hand wrapped his arms around his brother, pulling him away from the horse. At this first act of violence, Charcoal tried to raise his rifle but the brother called for help; moments later Left Hand's wife and Bear Back Bone were upon the desperate man, tearing away his rifle, grabbing his butcher knife, and wrestling him to the ground. In dismay Charcoal struggled with his brothers. He had beaten the police, the scouts, the ranchers, everyone. Of all people, his brothers understood his mission, his need to kill a chief and his faithless wife. They knew about his wish to go to the Sand Hills as a leader, and they realized what would happen to his spirit if the police captured and hanged him. This thing couldn't be happening! He felt his body being pushed and dragged through the snow toward the cabin; his arms [p. 150] pinioned at his sides; his sister-in-law, his fat sister-in-law, sitting squarely on his shoulders. It was no dream; it was real. At that moment, his rifle gone, betrayed by his brothers, Charcoal surrendered to the real world. ""I give up,"" he said to Left Hand. ""Now you can be a chief for catching me.""3 All fight left him as he lay on the earthen floor, a tired and beaten man. He heard his brother shout for White Buffalo Chief, Big Plume, and Willie Red Crow to help him, that he had captured Charoal. A little later, White Man Left, Calf Chief, and Chief Moon arrived, curiously watching their onetime friend who now lay before them like a gaunt, trapped animal. Charcoal was allowed to sit in a chair, and there, huddled down with his hood pulled over his head, the exhausted man appeared to sleep while waiting for the police to come from Standoff. There was no hope now of killing Pretty Wolverine Woman; in fact, Left Hand had told him the police had locked her up in Macleod. Cautiously, with a movement so slight that it scarcely disturbed his winter coat, Charcoal grasped an awl which was hidden in his clothes. He didn't want this body any longer; his brothers could have it. The sharp point of the awl pierced through the skin of his arm and into a vein. And again. Chief Moon, sitting on a woodpile near the door, saw something moving on the floor. It looked like a dark, dirt-covered worm. ""What's that?"" he asked. ""Where?""4 When they raised Charcoal's coat to discover what was causing the shifting soil, they saw a sprawling pool of blood under his chair. When his coat was pulled back, the blood came spurting from his arm. Charcoal weakly tried to push them away, but they covered his wounds with flour and bound them with strips of cotton. Why didn't they let him die? Even the coyote, after it had taunted its last dog, stolen its last food, killed its last enemy was allowed to die as it wished. It might crawl into a cave, be torn apart by a savage pack of dogs, or even be destroyed by its own kind. Charcoal's adventure was over and he wanted to die; he was ready to abandon this world in which no one wanted him to stay. Why didn't they let him die?"	Evidence for	x	adult	he was finally captured for murder and trying to kill his wife	interpersonal confli,group conflict,enslavement_capture,accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	trying to catch up with his cheating wife to kill her. on the run from his brothers, kin, and the police	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	bleed_to_death	 He didn't want this body any longer; his brothers could have it. The sharp point of the awl pierced through the skin of his arm and into a vein. 	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence for	na	brothers,social group	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence for		perpetrate violence	attempt	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x	commit homicide	unknown	full story in original document suggests painful affect	As the days passed, he had given himself over more and more to the spirit world	x	x	not stated	1	x	"The sharp point of the awl pierced through the skin of his arm and into a vein. And again. Chief Moon, sitting on a woodpile near the door, saw something moving on the floor. It looked like a dark, dirt-covered worm. ""What's that?"" he asked. ""Where?""4 When they raised Charcoal's coat to discover what was causing the shifting soil, they saw a sprawling pool of blood under his chair. When his coat was pulled back, the blood came spurting from his arm. Charcoal weakly tried to push them away, but they covered his wounds with flour and bound them with strips of cotton. Why didn't they let him die? Even the coyote, after it had taunted its last dog, stolen its last food, killed its last enemy was allowed to die as it wished. It might crawl into a cave, be torn apart by a savage pack of dogs, or even be destroyed by its own kind. Charcoal's adventure was over and he wanted to die; he was ready to abandon this world in which no one wanted him to stay. Why didn't they let him die?"	x	Evidence for	private	no	Evidence for	unknown	hearsay
217	zgarfield	Cultural model	Blackfoot	Among the Blackfeet, there was apparently no form of courtship, such as prevails among our southern Indians. Young men seldom spoke to young girls who were not relations, and the girls were carefully guarded. They never went out of the lodge after dark, and never went out during the day, except with the mother or some other old woman. The girl, therefore, had very little choice in the selection of a husband. If a girl was told she must marry a certain man, she had to obey. She might cry, but her father's will was law, and she might be beaten or even killed by him, if she did not do as she was ordered. As a consequence of this severity, suicide was quite common among the Blackfoot girls. A girl ordered to marry a man whom she did not like would often watch her chance, and go out in the brush and hang herself. The girl who could not marry the man she wanted to was likely to do the same thing.	No evidence	x	young adult	If a girl was told she must marry a certain man, she had to obey. She might cry, but her father's will was law, and she might be beaten or even killed by him, if she did not do as she was ordered. As a consequence of this severity, suicide was quite common among the Blackfoot girls. A girl ordered to marry a man whom she did not like would often watch her chance, and go out in the brush and hang herself. 	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	If a girl was told she must marry a certain man, she had to obey. She might cry, but her father's will was law, and she might be beaten or even killed by him, if she did not do as she was ordered. As a consequence of this severity, suicide was quite common among the Blackfoot girls. A girl ordered to marry a man whom she did not like would often watch her chance, and go out in the brush and hang herself. 	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	popular	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	hanging	A girl ordered to marry a man whom she did not like would often watch her chance, and go out in the brush and hang herself. 	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	male	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		no	She might cry	A girl ordered to marry a man whom she did not like would often watch her chance, and go out in the brush and hang herself. The girl who could not marry the man she wanted to was likely to do the same thing.	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	Evidence for	private	no	Evidence against		firsthand
217	syme	Cultural model	Blackfoot	Among the Blackfeet, there was apparently no form of courtship, such as prevails among our southern Indians. Young men seldom spoke to young girls who were not relations, and the girls were carefully guarded. They never went out of the lodge after dark, and never went out during the day, except with the mother or some other old woman. The girl, therefore, had very little choice in the selection of a husband. If a girl was told she must marry a certain man, she had to obey. She might cry, but her father's will was law, and she might be beaten or even killed by him, if she did not do as she was ordered. As a consequence of this severity, suicide was quite common among the Blackfoot girls. A girl ordered to marry a man whom she did not like would often watch her chance, and go out in the brush and hang herself. The girl who could not marry the man she wanted to was likely to do the same thing.	No evidence	x	young adult	Among the Blackfeet, there was apparently no form of courtship, such as prevails among our southern Indians. Young men seldom spoke to young girls who were not relations, and the girls were carefully guarded. They never went out of the lodge after dark, and never went out during the day, except with the mother or some other old woman. The girl, therefore, had very little choice in the selection of a husband. If a girl was told she must marry a certain man, she had to obey. She might cry, but her father's will was law, and she might be beaten or even killed by him, if she did not do as she was ordered. As a consequence of this severity, suicide was quite common among the Blackfoot girls. A girl ordered to marry a man whom she did not like would often watch her chance, and go out in the brush and hang herself. The girl who could not marry the man she wanted to was likely to do the same thing.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The girl, therefore, had very little choice in the selection of a husband. If a girl was told she must marry a certain man, she had to obey. She might cry, but her father's will was law, and she might be beaten or even killed by him, if she did not do as she was ordered. As a consequence of this severity, suicide was quite common among the Blackfoot girls. A girl ordered to marry a man whom she did not like would often watch her chance, and go out in the brush and hang herself. The girl who could not marry the man she wanted to was likely to do the same thing.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	hanging	A girl ordered to marry a man whom she did not like would often watch her chance, and go out in the brush and hang herself. The girl who could not marry the man she wanted to was likely to do the same thing.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	father	male	na	No evidence	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	private	no	No evidence	unknown	na
218	zgarfield	Case	Blackfoot	Though the right is still recognized to-day, freedom of movement from the effects of this authority is more difficult on a reserve. In the recent past a man deserted his wife and children to live with another woman. Bound to the reserve, he faced daily social censure for his acts until he terminated his marginal position by suicide.	No evidence	x	adult	In the recent past a man deserted his wife and children to live with another woman. Bound to the reserve, he faced daily social censure for his acts until he terminated his marginal position by suicide.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	In the recent past a man deserted his wife and children to live with another woman. Bound to the reserve, he faced daily social censure for his acts until he terminated his marginal position by suicide.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		
218	syme	Case	Blackfoot	Though the right is still recognized to-day, freedom of movement from the effects of this authority is more difficult on a reserve. In the recent past a man deserted his wife and children to live with another woman. Bound to the reserve, he faced daily social censure for his acts until he terminated his marginal position by suicide.	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	Though the right is still recognized to-day, freedom of movement from the effects of this authority is more difficult on a reserve. In the recent past a man deserted his wife and children to live with another woman. Bound to the reserve, he faced daily social censure for his acts until he terminated his marginal position by suicide.	accus_commit wrongdo,loss social position	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	social group	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	low	unknown
219	zgarfield	Cultural model	Blackfoot	Widows who commit suicide by their husband's graves are said to have been persuaded to join them on their way to the Sandhills [a place of spirits?].	No evidence	x	adult	Widows who commit suicide by their husband's graves are said to have been persuaded to join them on their way to the Sandhills [a place of spirits?].	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		na
219	syme	Cultural model	Blackfoot	Widows who commit suicide by their husband's graves are said to have been persuaded to join them on their way to the Sandhills [a place of spirits?].	No evidence	neutral?	unknown	Widows who commit suicide by their husband's graves are said to have been persuaded to join them on their way to the Sandhills [a place of spirits?].	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	Widows who commit suicide by their husband's graves are said to have been persuaded to join them on their way to the Sandhills [a place of spirits?].	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female	husband	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
220	zgarfield	Cultural model	Blackfoot	Occasionally an older husband would give up one of his younger wives if he knew that she was hopelessly in love with a good young man. However, more often such romances brought much frustration and unhappiness, and suicide was not uncommon among young, heartbroken women.	No evidence	x	adult	Occasionally an older husband would give up one of his younger wives if he knew that she was hopelessly in love with a good young man. However, more often such romances brought much frustration and unhappiness, and suicide was not uncommon among young, heartbroken women.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Occasionally an older husband would give up one of his younger wives if he knew that she was hopelessly in love with a good young man. However, more often such romances brought much frustration and unhappiness, and suicide was not uncommon among young, heartbroken women.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	male	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	 frustration, unhappiness, heartbroken.	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	no	No evidence		na
220	syme	Cultural model	Blackfoot	Occasionally an older husband would give up one of his younger wives if he knew that she was hopelessly in love with a good young man. However, more often such romances brought much frustration and unhappiness, and suicide was not uncommon among young, heartbroken women.	No evidence	x	young adult	Occasionally an older husband would give up one of his younger wives if he knew that she was hopelessly in love with a good young man. However, more often such romances brought much frustration and unhappiness, and suicide was not uncommon among young, heartbroken women.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Occasionally an older husband would give up one of his younger wives if he knew that she was hopelessly in love with a good young man. However, more often such romances brought much frustration and unhappiness, and suicide was not uncommon among young, heartbroken women.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	husband	male	na	No evidence	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	polygyny	no	 more often such romances brought much frustration and unhappiness, and suicide was not uncommon among young, heartbroken women.	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
221	zgarfield	Case	Blackfoot	"The entire assembly became hushed, when Kit-sta-ka [p. 318] arose from a group of squaws and, with trembling voice, sang to her dead lover, ""This is the sacred place where I was last with my lover. Now I am left alone, for he has gone to the Spirit World where I hope to join him soon."" After the Sun-dance, Kit-sta-ka was camped with the clan of Lone Eaters on Two Medicine River. One evening she was seen standing on the edge of a high cliff in full view of the camp. The Indians heard her singing this same song to her dead lover, and then saw her jump to her death."	No evidence	x	adult	"One evening she was seen standing on the edge of a high cliff in full view of the camp. The Indians heard her singing this same song to her dead lover, and then saw her jump to her death.
"	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	jumping	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	death of a loved one	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		secondhand
221	syme	Case	Blackfoot	"The entire assembly became hushed, when Kit-sta-ka [p. 318] arose from a group of squaws and, with trembling voice, sang to her dead lover, ""This is the sacred place where I was last with my lover. Now I am left alone, for he has gone to the Spirit World where I hope to join him soon."" After the Sun-dance, Kit-sta-ka was camped with the clan of Lone Eaters on Two Medicine River. One evening she was seen standing on the edge of a high cliff in full view of the camp. The Indians heard her singing this same song to her dead lover, and then saw her jump to her death."	No evidence	x	young adult,adult	"The entire assembly became hushed, when Kit-sta-ka [p. 318] arose from a group of squaws and, with trembling voice, sang to her dead lover, ""This is the sacred place where I was last with my lover. Now I am left alone, for he has gone to the Spirit World where I hope to join him soon."" After the Sun-dance, Kit-sta-ka was camped with the clan of Lone Eaters on Two Medicine River. One evening she was seen standing on the edge of a high cliff in full view of the camp. The Indians heard her singing this same song to her dead lover, and then saw her jump to her death."	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	jumping	"""This is the sacred place where I was last with my lover. Now I am left alone, for he has gone to the Spirit World where I hope to join him soon."" "	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x	x	no	"The entire assembly became hushed, when Kit-sta-ka [p. 318] arose from a group of squaws and, with trembling voice, sang to her dead lover, ""This is the sacred place where I was last with my lover. Now I am left alone, for he has gone to the Spirit World where I hope to join him soon."" After the Sun-dance, Kit-sta-ka was camped with the clan of Lone Eaters on Two Medicine River. One evening she was seen standing on the edge of a high cliff in full view of the camp. The Indians heard her singing this same song to her dead lover, and then saw her jump to her death."	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
222	zgarfield	Case	Blackfoot	After sunset, on our way to One Spot's lodge, we were startled by the mournful wailing of a woman, standing upon a lonely butte, overlooking the river valley. [p. 370] Snake Woman told us that she was the mother of Has-many-guns-in-the-camp, mourning over his death. The sad news had just come, that he had died in the camp of the North Blackfeet. While absent on a long journey, he had heard that his wife had left him for another. Has-many-guns mourned so deeply over the loss of his wife, that he refused to eat and finally died from starvation.	No evidence	x	adult	The sad news had just come, that he had died in the camp of the North Blackfeet. While absent on a long journey, he had heard that his wife had left him for another. Has-many-guns mourned so deeply over the loss of his wife, that he refused to eat and finally died from starvation.	rejection	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The sad news had just come, that he had died in the camp of the North Blackfeet. While absent on a long journey, he had heard that his wife had left him for another. Has-many-guns mourned so deeply over the loss of his wife, that he refused to eat and finally died from starvation.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	starvation	x	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	female	na	No evidence	male		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		unknown	mourned so deeply 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
222	syme	Case	Blackfoot	After sunset, on our way to One Spot's lodge, we were startled by the mournful wailing of a woman, standing upon a lonely butte, overlooking the river valley. [p. 370] Snake Woman told us that she was the mother of Has-many-guns-in-the-camp, mourning over his death. The sad news had just come, that he had died in the camp of the North Blackfeet. While absent on a long journey, he had heard that his wife had left him for another. Has-many-guns mourned so deeply over the loss of his wife, that he refused to eat and finally died from starvation.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult	 The sad news had just come, that he had died in the camp of the North Blackfeet. While absent on a long journey, he had heard that his wife had left him for another. Has-many-guns mourned so deeply over the loss of his wife, that he refused to eat and finally died from starvation.	rejection,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	starvation	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x	x	no	 Has-many-guns mourned so deeply over the loss of his wife, that he refused to eat and finally died from starvation.	x	x	x	not stated	1	not eating (depression)	After sunset, on our way to One Spot's lodge, we were startled by the mournful wailing of a woman, standing upon a lonely butte, overlooking the river valley. [p. 370] Snake Woman told us that she was the mother of Has-many-guns-in-the-camp, mourning over his death. 	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	unknown
223	zgarfield	Case	Blackfoot	"Page 152, 504.1 ""When Wakes-up-last murdered all of his children."" The murder of Brings-down-the-Sun's daughter (Pretty Blanket) and her three children, and Wakes-up-last's suicide, was the result of the sale of bad whiskey, consisting largely of wood alcohol, to Blackfeet Indians by white saloon-keepers in the town of Cutbank, Montana. Their bodies lay for some time uncared for, because of the superstitious dread of touching the dead, until Menake prepared them for burial. Although the sale of whiskey to Indians is prohibited by United States Law the saloon-keepers escaped punishment."	No evidence	x	adult	"""When Wakes-up-last murdered all of his children."" The murder of Brings-down-the-Sun's daughter (Pretty Blanket) and her three children, and Wakes-up-last's suicide, was the result of the sale of bad whiskey, consisting largely of wood alcohol, to Blackfeet Indians by white saloon-keepers in the town of Cutbank, Montana. "	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	"""When Wakes-up-last murdered all of his children."" The murder of Brings-down-the-Sun's daughter (Pretty Blanket) and her three children, and Wakes-up-last's suicide, was the result of the sale of bad whiskey, consisting largely of wood alcohol, to Blackfeet Indians by white saloon-keepers in the town of Cutbank, Montana. "	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	perpetrate violence,death of a loved one	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	"""When Wakes-up-last murdered all of his children."" The murder of Brings-down-the-Sun's daughter (Pretty Blanket) and her three children, and Wakes-up-last's suicide, was the result of the sale of bad whiskey, consisting largely of wood alcohol, to Blackfeet Indians by white saloon-keepers in the town of Cutbank, Montana. "		x	x		no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
223	syme	Case	Blackfoot	"Page 152, 504.1 ""When Wakes-up-last murdered all of his children."" The murder of Brings-down-the-Sun's daughter (Pretty Blanket) and her three children, and Wakes-up-last's suicide, was the result of the sale of bad whiskey, consisting largely of wood alcohol, to Blackfeet Indians by white saloon-keepers in the town of Cutbank, Montana. Their bodies lay for some time uncared for, because of the superstitious dread of touching the dead, until Menake prepared them for burial. Although the sale of whiskey to Indians is prohibited by United States Law the saloon-keepers escaped punishment."	Evidence for	x	unknown	" Page 152, 504.1 ""When Wakes-up-last murdered all of his children."" The murder of Brings-down-the-Sun's daughter (Pretty Blanket) and her three children, and Wakes-up-last's suicide, was the result of the sale of bad whiskey, consisting largely of wood alcohol, to Blackfeet Indians by white saloon-keepers in the town of Cutbank, Montana. "	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	fearfully	na	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	unknown,substance abuse	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	commit homicide, drunk at time	no	x	x	x	 Their bodies lay for some time uncared for, because of the superstitious dread of touching the dead, until Menake prepared them for burial.	yes	1	killed all of his children	" Page 152, 504.1 ""When Wakes-up-last murdered all of his children."" The murder of Brings-down-the-Sun's daughter (Pretty Blanket) and her three children, and Wakes-up-last's suicide, was the result of the sale of bad whiskey, consisting largely of wood alcohol, to Blackfeet Indians by white saloon-keepers in the town of Cutbank, Montana. Their bodies lay for some time uncared for, because of the superstitious dread of touching the dead, until Menake prepared them for burial. Although the sale of whiskey to Indians is prohibited by United States Law the saloon-keepers escaped punishment."	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
224	zgarfield	Case	Blackfoot	On another occasion a married woman was caught indulging in an amorous embrace with her paramour. Her husband immediately ordered her home where he proceeded to cut the cords of both her legs above the heels. Next he severed both of her ears. Not satisfied with this mutilation, the man cut the tip of her nose off. Last of all, he cut her hair close to her head and told her to go back to her sweetheart. This woman had been a great beauty. After she was thus disfigured she was unable to look anyone in the face and in her loneliness and despair she repaired to a bush and hanged herself.	Evidence for	x	adult	 Her husband immediately ordered her home where he proceeded to cut the cords of both her legs above the heels. Next he severed both of her ears. Not satisfied with this mutilation, the man cut the tip of her nose off. Last of all, he cut her hair close to her head and told her to go back to her sweetheart. This woman had been a great beauty. After she was thus disfigured she was unable to look anyone in the face and in her loneliness and despair she repaired to a bush and hanged herself.	interpersonal confli,resource loss	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 Her husband immediately ordered her home where he proceeded to cut the cords of both her legs above the heels. Next he severed both of her ears. Not satisfied with this mutilation, the man cut the tip of her nose off. Last of all, he cut her hair close to her head and told her to go back to her sweetheart. This woman had been a great beauty. After she was thus disfigured she was unable to look anyone in the face and in her loneliness and despair she repaired to a bush and hanged herself.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	Evidence for	hanging	"After she was thus disfigured she was unable to look anyone in the face and in her loneliness and despair she repaired to a bush and hanged herself.
"	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	male	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	physical abuse	completion	x	Evidence for	severe	other	x		x	x		unknown	loneliness and despair 	"After she was thus disfigured she was unable to look anyone in the face and in her loneliness and despair she repaired to a bush and hanged herself.
"	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	After she was thus disfigured she was unable to look anyone in the face 	No evidence	public	unknown	Evidence against		firsthand
224	syme	Case	Blackfoot	On another occasion a married woman was caught indulging in an amorous embrace with her paramour. Her husband immediately ordered her home where he proceeded to cut the cords of both her legs above the heels. Next he severed both of her ears. Not satisfied with this mutilation, the man cut the tip of her nose off. Last of all, he cut her hair close to her head and told her to go back to her sweetheart. This woman had been a great beauty. After she was thus disfigured she was unable to look anyone in the face and in her loneliness and despair she repaired to a bush and hanged herself.	Evidence for	x	young adult,adult,unknown	On another occasion a married woman was caught indulging in an amorous embrace with her paramour. Her husband immediately ordered her home where he proceeded to cut the cords of both her legs above the heels. Next he severed both of her ears. Not satisfied with this mutilation, the man cut the tip of her nose off. Last of all, he cut her hair close to her head and told her to go back to her sweetheart. This woman had been a great beauty. After she was thus disfigured she was unable to look anyone in the face and in her loneliness and despair she repaired to a bush and hanged herself.	other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	On another occasion a married woman was caught indulging in an amorous embrace with her paramour. Her husband immediately ordered her home where he proceeded to cut the cords of both her legs above the heels. Next he severed both of her ears. Not satisfied with this mutilation, the man cut the tip of her nose off. Last of all, he cut her hair close to her head and told her to go back to her sweetheart. This woman had been a great beauty. After she was thus disfigured she was unable to look anyone in the face and in her loneliness and despair she repaired to a bush and hanged herself.	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	hanging	she was unable to look anyone in the face and in her loneliness and despair she repaired to a bush and hanged herself.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	husband	male	na	Evidence for	female	x	Evidence against		physical abuse	completion	x	No evidence	severe,chronic	other	x	5	x	x	x	unknown	her loneliness and despair 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	Her husband immediately ordered her home where he proceeded to cut the cords of both her legs above the heels. Next he severed both of her ears. Not satisfied with this mutilation, the man cut the tip of her nose off. Last of all, he cut her hair close to her head and told her to go back to her sweetheart. This woman had been a great beauty. 	Evidence for	private	unknown	Evidence for	low,unknown	unknown
225	zgarfield	Case	Blackfoot	"The imposition of alien concepts of crime and punishment on the plains tribes also caused a tragedy on the South Peigan reservation. In 1887, the sheriff of Choteau County arrived at the agency with an arrest warrant for a Peigan called Two Foxes, who allegedly had killed a white man. The Indian police found their man, but Two Foxes escaped. The police gave chase, and Two Foxes killed himself before [p. 163] ""He told [the police],"" the agent wrote, ""he would not be arrested, that his body was his own."" Most of the Peigans believed that Two Foxes committed suicide rather than face arrest for murder, but agent Baldwin maintained that Two Foxes had not been involved in the murder, and actually feared being arrested for stealing a horse a year earlier. Most likely, his fear of white man's justice had driven Two Foxes to take his own life.55 However, such tragic incidents were more unusual than typical of problems in law enforcement on Indian reservations."	Evidence for	x	adult	"The Indian police found their man, but Two Foxes escaped. The police gave chase, and Two Foxes killed himself before [p. 163] ""He told [the police],"" the agent wrote, ""he would not be arrested, that his body was his own."""	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"The Indian police found their man, but Two Foxes escaped. The police gave chase, and Two Foxes killed himself before [p. 163] ""He told [the police],"" the agent wrote, ""he would not be arrested, that his body was his own."""	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	Most likely, his fear of white man's justice had driven Two Foxes to take his own life.	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	he would not be arrested, that his body was his own		unknown	feared being arrested	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
225	syme	Case	Blackfoot	"The imposition of alien concepts of crime and punishment on the plains tribes also caused a tragedy on the South Peigan reservation. In 1887, the sheriff of Choteau County arrived at the agency with an arrest warrant for a Peigan called Two Foxes, who allegedly had killed a white man. The Indian police found their man, but Two Foxes escaped. The police gave chase, and Two Foxes killed himself before [p. 163] ""He told [the police],"" the agent wrote, ""he would not be arrested, that his body was his own."" Most of the Peigans believed that Two Foxes committed suicide rather than face arrest for murder, but agent Baldwin maintained that Two Foxes had not been involved in the murder, and actually feared being arrested for stealing a horse a year earlier. Most likely, his fear of white man's justice had driven Two Foxes to take his own life.55 However, such tragic incidents were more unusual than typical of problems in law enforcement on Indian reservations."	Evidence for	x	adult,unknown	"The imposition of alien concepts of crime and punishment on the plains tribes also caused a tragedy on the South Peigan reservation. In 1887, the sheriff of Choteau County arrived at the agency with an arrest warrant for a Peigan called Two Foxes, who allegedly had killed a white man. The Indian police found their man, but Two Foxes escaped. The police gave chase, and Two Foxes killed himself before [p. 163] ""He told [the police],"" the agent wrote, ""he would not be arrested, that his body was his own."" Most of the Peigans believed that Two Foxes committed suicide rather than face arrest for murder, but agent Baldwin maintained that Two Foxes had not been involved in the murder, and actually feared being arrested for stealing a horse a year earlier. Most likely, his fear of white man's justice had driven Two Foxes to take his own life.55 However, such tragic incidents were more unusual than typical of problems in law enforcement on Indian reservations."	accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"The imposition of alien concepts of crime and punishment on the plains tribes also caused a tragedy on the South Peigan reservation. In 1887, the sheriff of Choteau County arrived at the agency with an arrest warrant for a Peigan called Two Foxes, who allegedly had killed a white man. The Indian police found their man, but Two Foxes escaped. The police gave chase, and Two Foxes killed himself before [p. 163] ""He told [the police],"" the agent wrote, ""he would not be arrested, that his body was his own."" Most of the Peigans believed that Two Foxes committed suicide rather than face arrest for murder, but agent Baldwin maintained that Two Foxes had not been involved in the murder, and actually feared being arrested for stealing a horse a year earlier. Most likely, his fear of white man's justice had driven Two Foxes to take his own life.55 However, such tragic incidents were more unusual than typical of problems in law enforcement on Indian reservations."	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	" ""he would not be arrested, that his body was his own.""  Most likely, his fear of white man's justice had driven Two Foxes to take his own life.55 However, such tragic incidents were more unusual than typical of problems in law enforcement on Indian reservations."	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	police	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence against		perpetrate violence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	stealing or murder	4	x	x	commit homicide (?)	unknown	"The imposition of alien concepts of crime and punishment on the plains tribes also caused a tragedy on the South Peigan reservation. In 1887, the sheriff of Choteau County arrived at the agency with an arrest warrant for a Peigan called Two Foxes, who allegedly had killed a white man. The Indian police found their man, but Two Foxes escaped. The police gave chase, and Two Foxes killed himself before [p. 163] ""He told [the police],"" the agent wrote, ""he would not be arrested, that his body was his own."" Most of the Peigans believed that Two Foxes committed suicide rather than face arrest for murder, but agent Baldwin maintained that Two Foxes had not been involved in the murder, and actually feared being arrested for stealing a horse a year earlier. Most likely, his fear of white man's justice had driven Two Foxes to take his own life.55 However, such tragic incidents were more unusual than typical of problems in law enforcement on Indian reservations."	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"The imposition of alien concepts of crime and punishment on the plains tribes also caused a tragedy on the South Peigan reservation. In 1887, the sheriff of Choteau County arrived at the agency with an arrest warrant for a Peigan called Two Foxes, who allegedly had killed a white man. The Indian police found their man, but Two Foxes escaped. The police gave chase, and Two Foxes killed himself before [p. 163] ""He told [the police],"" the agent wrote, ""he would not be arrested, that his body was his own."" Most of the Peigans believed that Two Foxes committed suicide rather than face arrest for murder, but agent Baldwin maintained that Two Foxes had not been involved in the murder, and actually feared being arrested for stealing a horse a year earlier. Most likely, his fear of white man's justice had driven Two Foxes to take his own life.55 However, such tragic incidents were more unusual than typical of problems in law enforcement on Indian reservations."	x	Evidence for	private	no	Evidence for	unknown	unknown
230	zgarfield	Case	Copper Inuit	The most recent suicide in the community occurred in 1980 when a young man (age twenty) shot himself in the head with a high-powered rifle. Community reaction to this event was one of shock. Almost everyone recognized that the victim was a bright, hardworking, and motivated young man with a promising future. (Just a few months before, this young man had returned from a vocational training program and had secured a good, high-paying job in the community.) No one could have possibly predicted that such an individual would take his own life. In fact, prior to the suicide there were no overt [p. 186] signs of depression to suggest that something was terribly wrong with this individual.	No evidence	x	adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	shooting	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	20	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence against		firsthand
230	syme	Case	Copper Inuit	The most recent suicide in the community occurred in 1980 when a young man (age twenty) shot himself in the head with a high-powered rifle. Community reaction to this event was one of shock. Almost everyone recognized that the victim was a bright, hardworking, and motivated young man with a promising future. (Just a few months before, this young man had returned from a vocational training program and had secured a good, high-paying job in the community.) No one could have possibly predicted that such an individual would take his own life. In fact, prior to the suicide there were no overt [p. 186] signs of depression to suggest that something was terribly wrong with this individual.	No evidence	x	young adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	shooting	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	20	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	Community reaction to this event was one of shock. Almost everyone recognized that the victim was a bright, hardworking, and motivated young man with a promising future. (Just a few months before, this young man had returned from a vocational training program and had secured a good, high-paying job in the community.) No one could have possibly predicted that such an individual would take his own life. In fact, prior to the suicide there were no overt [p. 186] signs of depression to suggest that something was terribly wrong with this individual.	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	high,unknown	secondhand
231	zgarfield	Case	Copper Inuit	In addition to this successful suicide, two suicide attempts were documented, one in 1979 and another in 1982. Both of these incidents involved young men in their early twenties.	No evidence	x	young adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x	1	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		documented_account
231	syme	Case	Copper Inuit	In addition to this successful suicide, two suicide attempts were documented, one in 1979 and another in 1982. Both of these incidents involved young men in their early twenties.	No evidence	x	young adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	20-23	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	2,rate	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	documented_account
233	zgarfield	Cultural model	Copper Inuit	As with deaths from accidents, injuries, and violence, alcohol abuse appears to be implicated in the vast majority of Inuit suicides.	No evidence	x	unknown	alcohol abuse appears to be implicated in the vast majority of Inuit suicides.	other,unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	alcohol abuse appears to be implicated in the vast majority of Inuit suicides.		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		na
233	syme	Cultural model	Copper Inuit	As with deaths from accidents, injuries, and violence, alcohol abuse appears to be implicated in the vast majority of Inuit suicides.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence		No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	substance abuse	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	As with deaths from accidents, injuries, and violence, alcohol abuse appears to be implicated in the vast majority of Inuit suicides.As with deaths from accidents, injuries, and violence, alcohol abuse appears to be implicated in the vast majority of Inuit suicides.	x	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	As with deaths from accidents, injuries, and violence, alcohol abuse appears to be implicated in the vast majority of Inuit suicides.	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	na	unknown
234	zgarfield	Cultural model	Copper Inuit	Some researchers have suggested that the high suicide rate among the Inuit is partially due to the acceptance of altruistic self-destruction during the traditional period. Anthropological accounts abound with examples of the old and infirm who are no longer productive members of a household taking their own lives	Evidence for	x	adult	ome researchers have suggested that the high suicide rate among the Inuit is partially due to the acceptance of altruistic self-destruction during the traditional period. Anthropological accounts abound with examples of the old and infirm who are no longer productive members of a household taking their own lives	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	"no longer productive members of a household taking their own lives
"	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	ome researchers have suggested that the high suicide rate among the Inuit is partially due to the acceptance of altruistic self-destruction during the traditional period. Anthropological accounts abound with examples of the old and infirm who are no longer productive members of a household taking their own lives	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		firsthand
234	syme	Cultural model	Copper Inuit	Some researchers have suggested that the high suicide rate among the Inuit is partially due to the acceptance of altruistic self-destruction during the traditional period. Anthropological accounts abound with examples of the old and infirm who are no longer productive members of a household taking their own lives	Evidence for	x	elderly	Some researchers have suggested that the high suicide rate among the Inuit is partially due to the acceptance of altruistic self-destruction during the traditional period. Anthropological accounts abound with examples of the old and infirm who are no longer productive members of a household taking their own lives	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	Anthropological accounts abound with examples of the old and infirm who are no longer productive members of a household taking their own lives	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	both	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	chronic	unknown	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	 Anthropological accounts abound with examples of the old and infirm who are no longer productive members of a household taking their own lives	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
235	zgarfield	Cultural model	Copper Inuit	Patterns of alienation and disaffection acquired during adolescence may eventually be expressed in self-destructive behavior in early adulthood.	No evidence	x	young adult	Patterns of alienation and disaffection acquired during adolescence may eventually be expressed in self-destructive behavior in early adulthood.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	Patterns of alienation and disaffection acquired during adolescence may eventually be expressed in self-destructive behavior in early adulthood.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	alienation and disaffection 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
235	syme	Cultural model	Copper Inuit	Patterns of alienation and disaffection acquired during adolescence may eventually be expressed in self-destructive behavior in early adulthood.	No evidence	x	young adult	Patterns of alienation and disaffection acquired during adolescence 	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	attempt,completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	dissatisfaction 	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	na
236	zgarfield	Cultural model	Copper Inuit	They [these suicides] share a common theme in that they represent a reaction to a sense of social withdrawal and isolation. Few other options are available to such individuals in a society that condemns the open expression of anger or depression. As Foulks (1974, 23) suggests, the only alternative open to such persons is permanent withdrawal through suicide.	No evidence	x	unknown	"They [these suicides] share a common theme in that they represent a reaction to a sense of social withdrawal and isolation. Few other options are available to such individuals in a society that condemns the open expression of anger or depression. As Foulks (1974, 23) suggests, the only alternative open to such persons is permanent withdrawal through suicide.
"	interpersonal confli,rejection	No evidence	na	No evidence	"They [these suicides] share a common theme in that they represent a reaction to a sense of social withdrawal and isolation. Few other options are available to such individuals in a society that condemns the open expression of anger or depression. As Foulks (1974, 23) suggests, the only alternative open to such persons is permanent withdrawal through suicide.
"	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	"Few other options are available to such individuals in a society that condemns the open expression of anger or depression. As Foulks (1974, 23) suggests, the only alternative open to such persons is permanent withdrawal through suicide.
"	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na		unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	social withdrawal and isolation	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence for		unknown
236	syme	Cultural model	Copper Inuit	They [these suicides] share a common theme in that they represent a reaction to a sense of social withdrawal and isolation. Few other options are available to such individuals in a society that condemns the open expression of anger or depression. As Foulks (1974, 23) suggests, the only alternative open to such persons is permanent withdrawal through suicide.	No evidence	x	unknown	They [these suicides] share a common theme in that they represent a reaction to a sense of social withdrawal and isolation. Few other options are available to such individuals in a society that condemns the open expression of anger or depression. As Foulks (1974, 23) suggests, the only alternative open to such persons is permanent withdrawal through suicide.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	They [these suicides] share a common theme in that they represent a reaction to a sense of social withdrawal and isolation. Few other options are available to such individuals in a society that condemns the open expression of anger or depression. As Foulks (1974, 23) suggests, the only alternative open to such persons is permanent withdrawal through suicide.	x	x	x	x	unknown	Few other options are available to such individuals in a society that condemns the open expression of anger or depression. As Foulks (1974, 23) suggests, the only alternative open to such persons is permanent withdrawal through suicide.	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	na
237	zgarfield	Case	Copper Inuit	"""Did you hear what happened to her mother, Alunak, a couple of weeks ago?"" Reggie asked when the woman had left. I shook my head. ""If you remember Alunak she was not only getting on in years, but her eyesight was fading and she couldn't sew anymore. As a result, everybody kidded her about being helpless. Her infirmities and that constant teasing must have prayed on her mind until she found it unbearable, because one evening--after visiting friends near the trading post--she went out into the storm and was never seen again."" ""That was the oddest thing, Father!"" added Scott. ""About an hour after she left her friends, Alunak's grandson arrived by sled to take her home. He was told his grandmother should have reached the barracks long ago, as it's only a mile along the Bay. So the kid doubled back here to sound the alarm. Then everyone in camp began looking for poor old Alunak. ""We spotted her footprints in the snow a few hundred yards away from our barracks. The footsteps led toward Ikalututiak Lake which, as you know, is another four miles away. Then the prints suddenly vanished in the drifing snow. Because the storm had reached its full strength, we abandoned our search until morning. But we never found another trace of her."" ""What do you think might have happened?"" I asked Scott. ""I imagine that she fell from exhaustion and was covered by the snow. We might find her remains in the spring."" ""I doubt you'll ever find them when the snow does disappear. The foxes and wolves will find her body before that. The only part of her that might survive would be her skull. It's too big for them to crack. But why Alunak decided to walk out into the storm is sure puzzling. As a rule, young Eskimo couples try hard to lighten the unenviable existence of their old parents during normal times. Alunak's family wasn't starving. Her daughter was working for you. So she was better off than most aging Eskimos. Yet, she may have had a feeling, heightened by her friends' taunts, that it was time to get out of the way. On the other hand, since she was half-blind, she could conceivably have lost her way in the storm and frozen to death in a snowdrift, as you presumed."""	No evidence	x	elderly	"""If you remember Alunak she was not only getting on in years, but her eyesight was fading and she couldn't sew anymore. As a result, everybody kidded her about being helpless. Her infirmities and that constant teasing must have prayed on her mind until she found it unbearable, because one evening--after visiting friends near the trading post--she went out into the storm and was never seen again."	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	"""If you remember Alunak she was not only getting on in years, but her eyesight was fading and she couldn't sew anymore. As a result, everybody kidded her about being helpless. Her infirmities and that constant teasing must have prayed on her mind until she found it unbearable, because one evening--after visiting friends near the trading post--she went out into the storm and was never seen again."	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	x	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	Evidence for	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	unknown	other	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	infirmities, half-blind	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		firsthand
237	syme	Case	Copper Inuit	"""Did you hear what happened to her mother, Alunak, a couple of weeks ago?"" Reggie asked when the woman had left. I shook my head. ""If you remember Alunak she was not only getting on in years, but her eyesight was fading and she couldn't sew anymore. As a result, everybody kidded her about being helpless. Her infirmities and that constant teasing must have prayed on her mind until she found it unbearable, because one evening--after visiting friends near the trading post--she went out into the storm and was never seen again."" ""That was the oddest thing, Father!"" added Scott. ""About an hour after she left her friends, Alunak's grandson arrived by sled to take her home. He was told his grandmother should have reached the barracks long ago, as it's only a mile along the Bay. So the kid doubled back here to sound the alarm. Then everyone in camp began looking for poor old Alunak. ""We spotted her footprints in the snow a few hundred yards away from our barracks. The footsteps led toward Ikalututiak Lake which, as you know, is another four miles away. Then the prints suddenly vanished in the drifing snow. Because the storm had reached its full strength, we abandoned our search until morning. But we never found another trace of her."" ""What do you think might have happened?"" I asked Scott. ""I imagine that she fell from exhaustion and was covered by the snow. We might find her remains in the spring."" ""I doubt you'll ever find them when the snow does disappear. The foxes and wolves will find her body before that. The only part of her that might survive would be her skull. It's too big for them to crack. But why Alunak decided to walk out into the storm is sure puzzling. As a rule, young Eskimo couples try hard to lighten the unenviable existence of their old parents during normal times. Alunak's family wasn't starving. Her daughter was working for you. So she was better off than most aging Eskimos. Yet, she may have had a feeling, heightened by her friends' taunts, that it was time to get out of the way. On the other hand, since she was half-blind, she could conceivably have lost her way in the storm and frozen to death in a snowdrift, as you presumed."""	Evidence for	x	elderly	"""Did you hear what happened to her mother, Alunak, a couple of weeks ago?"" Reggie asked when the woman had left. I shook my head. ""If you remember Alunak she was not only getting on in years, but her eyesight was fading and she couldn't sew anymore. As a result, everybody kidded her about being helpless. Her infirmities and that constant teasing must have prayed on her mind until she found it unbearable, because one evening--after visiting friends near the trading post--she went out into the storm and was never seen again."" "	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	subject_to_elements	 Her infirmities and that constant teasing must have prayed on her mind until she found it unbearable,	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	kin,social group	na	na	Evidence for	female	children	No evidence		no evidence	completion,unknown	x	No evidence	chronic	unknown	x	5	x	Her infirmities and that constant teasing must have prayed on her mind until she found it unbearable,	x	no	Her infirmities and that constant teasing must have prayed on her mind until she found it unbearable,	x	x	"""I imagine that she fell from exhaustion and was covered by the snow. We might find her remains in the spring."" ""I doubt you'll ever find them when the snow does disappear. The foxes and wolves will find her body before that. The only part of her that might survive would be her skull. It's too big for them to crack. "	not stated	1	x	uncertain if death was intentional	"""Did you hear what happened to her mother, Alunak, a couple of weeks ago?"" Reggie asked when the woman had left. I shook my head. ""If you remember Alunak she was not only getting on in years, but her eyesight was fading and she couldn't sew anymore. "	No evidence	private	unknown	Evidence against	unknown	secondhand
238	zgarfield	Case	Copper Inuit	"""I certainly agree with Father Delalande that an Eskimo's behavior is often unpredictable, quickly changing from one extreme to another. He may suddenly decide that a dastardly deed is a good idea, so he follows through. Sometimes his ignorance is considered his excuse."" My Mountie friends nodded agreement, and Scott said animatedly, ""Here's another case, Father, to support your viewpoint. This one is almost a crime classic! A native woman named Mapha was brought into court at Coppermine for the murder of her husband, Ayalik, on Richardson Island, where they were wintering. She shot him while he was asleep, but didn't quite kill him, so she grabbed a net twine, made a tourniquet and strangled the poor fellow to death. ""It came out at the inquest that Mapha's lover, Aogak, was hunting nearby when Ayalik was murdered. This provided the motive. A few days later Aogak killed his wife Kuptana, and went to live with Mapha. ""Our headquarters at Coppermine got wind of this affair and Constable 'Frenchy' Chartrand was sent to Richardson Island to investigate. He found Aogak, the wife slayer, stretched out in his sleeping bag, his brains blown out. Aogak had apparently seen the Police team coming and shot himself through the ear by pressing the trigger with his toe. ""Mapha was escorted back to Coppermine for the trial. Since she had three small children and the evidence against her was circumstantial, she was acquitted. How do you like that for a surprise ending, Father?"" ""Purely from an Eskimo point of view, I'd say chances are that even if she had been found guilty, she wouldn't have understood why she was punished, anyway,"" I rationalized. ""She may still think that the White Man is stupid and should mind his own business. After all, that was a lovers' affair, between two couples. It wasn't anybody else's concern--least of all any White Man's, even in a Police uniform,"" I said facetiously."	No evidence	x	adult	He found Aogak, the wife slayer, stretched out in his sleeping bag, his brains blown out. Aogak had apparently seen the Police team coming and shot himself through the ear by pressing the trigger with his toe. 	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	He found Aogak, the wife slayer, stretched out in his sleeping bag, his brains blown out. Aogak had apparently seen the Police team coming and shot himself through the ear by pressing the trigger with his toe. 	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	shooting	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	private	no	Evidence against		firsthand
238	syme	Case	Copper Inuit	"""I certainly agree with Father Delalande that an Eskimo's behavior is often unpredictable, quickly changing from one extreme to another. He may suddenly decide that a dastardly deed is a good idea, so he follows through. Sometimes his ignorance is considered his excuse."" My Mountie friends nodded agreement, and Scott said animatedly, ""Here's another case, Father, to support your viewpoint. This one is almost a crime classic! A native woman named Mapha was brought into court at Coppermine for the murder of her husband, Ayalik, on Richardson Island, where they were wintering. She shot him while he was asleep, but didn't quite kill him, so she grabbed a net twine, made a tourniquet and strangled the poor fellow to death. ""It came out at the inquest that Mapha's lover, Aogak, was hunting nearby when Ayalik was murdered. This provided the motive. A few days later Aogak killed his wife Kuptana, and went to live with Mapha. ""Our headquarters at Coppermine got wind of this affair and Constable 'Frenchy' Chartrand was sent to Richardson Island to investigate. He found Aogak, the wife slayer, stretched out in his sleeping bag, his brains blown out. Aogak had apparently seen the Police team coming and shot himself through the ear by pressing the trigger with his toe. ""Mapha was escorted back to Coppermine for the trial. Since she had three small children and the evidence against her was circumstantial, she was acquitted. How do you like that for a surprise ending, Father?"" ""Purely from an Eskimo point of view, I'd say chances are that even if she had been found guilty, she wouldn't have understood why she was punished, anyway,"" I rationalized. ""She may still think that the White Man is stupid and should mind his own business. After all, that was a lovers' affair, between two couples. It wasn't anybody else's concern--least of all any White Man's, even in a Police uniform,"" I said facetiously."	Evidence for	x	adult,unknown	"""I certainly agree with Father Delalande that an Eskimo's behavior is often unpredictable, quickly changing from  ""Our headquarters at Coppermine got wind of this affair and Constable 'Frenchy' Chartrand was sent to Richardson Island to investigate. He found Aogak, the wife slayer, stretched out in his sleeping bag, his brains blown out. Aogak had apparently seen the Police team coming and shot himself through the ear by pressing the trigger with his toe."	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	" A native woman named Mapha was brought into court at Coppermine for the murder of her husband, Ayalik, on Richardson Island, where they were wintering. She shot him while he was asleep, but didn't quite kill him, so she grabbed a net twine, made a tourniquet and strangled the poor fellow to death. ""It came out at the inquest that Mapha's lover, Aogak, was hunting nearby when Ayalik was murdered. This provided the motive. A few days later Aogak killed his wife Kuptana, and went to live with Mapha. ""Our headquarters at Coppermine got wind of this affair and Constable 'Frenchy' Chartrand was sent to Richardson Island to investigate. He found Aogak, the wife slayer, stretched out in his sleeping bag, his brains blown out. Aogak had apparently seen the Police team coming and shot himself through the ear by pressing the trigger with his toe. ""Mapha was escorted back to Coppermine for the trial. Since she had three small children and the evidence against her was circumstantial, she was acquitted. How do you like that for a surprise ending, Father?"" ""Purely from an Eskimo point of view, I'd say chances are that even if she had been found guilty, she wouldn't have understood why she was punished, anyway,"" I rationalized. ""She may still think that the White Man is stupid and should mind his own business. After all, that was a lovers' affair, between two couples. It wasn't anybody else's concern--least of all any White Man's, even in a Police uniform,"" I said facetiously."	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	shooting	 Aogak had apparently seen the Police team coming and shot himself through the ear by pressing the trigger with his toe. 	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	police	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence against		perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	"A native woman named Mapha was brought into court at Coppermine for the murder of her husband, Ayalik, on Richardson Island, where they were wintering. She shot him while he was asleep, but didn't quite kill him, so she grabbed a net twine, made a tourniquet and strangled the poor fellow to death. ""It came out at the inquest that Mapha's lover, Aogak, was hunting nearby when Ayalik was murdered. This provided the motive. A few days later Aogak killed his wife Kuptana, and went to live with Mapha. ""Our headquarters at Coppermine got wind of this affair and Constable 'Frenchy' Chartrand was sent to Richardson Island to investigate. He found Aogak, the wife slayer, stretched out in his sleeping bag, his brains blown out. Aogak had apparently seen the Police team coming and shot himself through the ear by pressing the trigger with his toe."	6	x	x	commit homicide	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	" Aogak had apparently seen the Police team coming and shot himself through the ear by pressing the trigger with his toe. ""Mapha was escorted back to Coppermine for the trial. Since she had three small children and the evidence against her was circumstantial, she was acquitted. How do you like that for a surprise ending, Father?"" ""Purely from an Eskimo point of view, I'd say chances are that even if she had been found guilty, she wouldn't have understood why she was punished, anyway,"" I rationalized. "	x	Evidence for	private	unknown	No evidence	unknown	secondhand
239	zgarfield	Cultural model	Copper Inuit	Not many years ago, if a man or woman became too old and feeble to run behind the dogs and could no longer contribute to the family, his or her death might become necessary. Usually in such cases the older people themselves asked a close relative to kill them, a sort of assisted suicide. The garrotting or strangling was accomplished with a loose loop in a sealskin rope dropped around the neck and breaking it.	Evidence for	x	elderly	 Not many years ago, if a man or woman became too old and feeble to run behind the dogs and could no longer contribute to the family, his or her death might become necessary. Usually in such cases the older people themselves asked a close relative to kill them, a sort of assisted suicide. The garrotting or strangling was accomplished with a loose loop in a sealskin rope dropped around the neck and breaking it.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly	emic	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	popular	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	ask_someone_else,strangling	Usually in such cases the older people themselves asked a close relative to kill them, a sort of assisted suicide. 	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	chronic	other	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	too old and feeble 		public	no	Evidence against		firsthand
239	syme	Cultural model	Copper Inuit	Not many years ago, if a man or woman became too old and feeble to run behind the dogs and could no longer contribute to the family, his or her death might become necessary. Usually in such cases the older people themselves asked a close relative to kill them, a sort of assisted suicide. The garrotting or strangling was accomplished with a loose loop in a sealskin rope dropped around the neck and breaking it.	Evidence for	x	elderly	 Not many years ago, if a man or woman became too old and feeble to run behind the dogs and could no longer contribute to the family, his or her death might become necessary. Usually in such cases the older people themselves asked a close relative to kill them, a sort of assisted suicide.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	shooting,ask_someone_else,strangling	 Not many years ago, if a man or woman became too old and feeble to run behind the dogs and could no longer contribute to the family, his or her death might become necessary. 	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	both	kin	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	chronic	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	 Not many years ago, if a man or woman became too old and feeble to run behind the dogs and could no longer contribute to the family, his or her death might become necessary. 	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
240	zgarfield	Cultural model	Copper Inuit	The cause may either be sorrow.	No evidence	x	unknown	The cause may either be sorrow.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	depression	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	sorrow	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		unknown
240	syme	Cultural model	Copper Inuit	The cause may either be sorrow.	No evidence	x	unknown	sorrow	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	sorrow	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
241	zgarfield	Cultural model	Copper Inuit	The cause may either be...or sickness.	No evidence	x	unknown	The cause may either be...or sickness.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	The cause may either be...or sickness.	x	sickness	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		na
241	syme	Cultural model	Copper Inuit	The cause may either be...or sickness.	Evidence for	x	unknown	sickness	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	sickness	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
247	zgarfield	Cultural model	Hopi	"Another, somewhat different type of situation is that in which an individual whose feelings have been hurt wills himself to die, so as to hurt someone else. Women are particularly prone to do this, and indeed are ""meaner"" than men (Titiev, 73, pp. 23-24)."	No evidence	x	adult	"Another, somewhat different type of situation is that in which an individual whose feelings have been hurt wills himself to die, so as to hurt someone else. Women are particularly prone to do this, and indeed are ""meaner"" than men "	interpersonal confli	No evidence	unknown	Evidence for	"Another, somewhat different type of situation is that in which an individual whose feelings have been hurt wills himself to die, so as to hurt someone else. Women are particularly prone to do this, and indeed are ""meaner"" than men "	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	will to die	Another, somewhat different type of situation is that in which an individual whose feelings have been hurt wills himself to die, so as to hurt someone else. 	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	more often women		No evidence	Evidence for	other	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	feelings have been hurt 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		na
247	syme	Cultural model	Hopi	"Another, somewhat different type of situation is that in which an individual whose feelings have been hurt wills himself to die, so as to hurt someone else. Women are particularly prone to do this, and indeed are ""meaner"" than men (Titiev, 73, pp. 23-24)."	No evidence	x	unknown	"Another, somewhat different type of situation is that in which an individual whose feelings have been hurt wills himself to die, so as to hurt someone else. Women are particularly prone to do this, and indeed are ""meaner"" than men"	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Another, somewhat different type of situation is that in which an individual whose feelings have been hurt wills himself to die, so as to hurt someone else.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	will to die	"so as to hurt someone else. Women are particularly prone to do this, and indeed are ""meaner"" than men"	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	more often women	SA	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	whose feelings have been hurt 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
248	zgarfield	Cultural model	Hopi	There are some reports of suicides of aged people (Simmons, 59, p. 229).	No evidence	x	elderly	There are some reports of suicides of aged people	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		na
248	syme	Cultural model	Hopi	There are some reports of suicides of aged people (Simmons, 59, p. 229).	No evidence	x	elderly	old age	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
249	zgarfield	Case	Hopi	"The problem of aggression is highlighted by an episode at Moenkopi in the summer vacation of Don's eleventh year. The crisis which occurred brings out the degree to which he had become unable to express direct aggression against his elders in the course of his socialization. He criticized his father's brother's little boy for being a crybaby. His mother, who was caring for the child, became angry and struck Don, and he went off to the foothills and dug a pit in the sand. There he lay waiting for a cave-in to kill him. He left the pit for a few minutes, and shortly after that the cave-in occurred. He became terrified and returned to the village. He found his mother very upset, since she thought he had left for Oraibi, forty miles distant, as he had threatened to do. This would have been a long and dangerous trip for an eleven-year-old to make alone. He was careful to tell her where he had been and what he had done. It appears that Don's only weapon for turning against her was to attempt his own death. There is an evident parallel to Kennard's cases, mentioned earlier, in which an individual wills his death just to be ""mean"" to survivors. It may be that Don chose this passive mode of self-slaughter, simply waiting for the fatal moment, in order to avoid complete disobedience of the strong taboo against suicide."	Evidence for	x	child	He criticized his father's brother's little boy for being a crybaby. His mother, who was caring for the child, became angry and struck Don, and he went off to the foothills and dug a pit in the sand. There he lay waiting for a cave-in to kill him. He left the pit for a few minutes, and shortly after that the cave-in occurred.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	He criticized his father's brother's little boy for being a crybaby. His mother, who was caring for the child, became angry and struck Don, and he went off to the foothills and dug a pit in the sand. There he lay waiting for a cave-in to kill him. He left the pit for a few minutes, and shortly after that the cave-in occurred.	disapprovingly,fearfully	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	physical abuse	plan,attempt	11	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	He criticized his father's brother's little boy for being a crybaby. His mother, who was caring for the child, became angry and struck Don, and he went off to the foothills and dug a pit in the sand.	x		no	unable to express direct aggression	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	There he lay waiting for a cave-in to kill him. He left the pit for a few minutes, and shortly after that the cave-in occurred. He became terrified and returned to the village. He found his mother very upset, since she thought he had left for Oraibi, forty miles distant, as he had threatened to do. This would have been a long and dangerous trip for an eleven-year-old to make alone. He was careful to tell her where he had been and what he had done. It appears that Don's only weapon for turning against her was to attempt his own death.	x	Evidence for	private	no	Evidence against		firsthand
249	syme	Case	Hopi	"The problem of aggression is highlighted by an episode at Moenkopi in the summer vacation of Don's eleventh year. The crisis which occurred brings out the degree to which he had become unable to express direct aggression against his elders in the course of his socialization. He criticized his father's brother's little boy for being a crybaby. His mother, who was caring for the child, became angry and struck Don, and he went off to the foothills and dug a pit in the sand. There he lay waiting for a cave-in to kill him. He left the pit for a few minutes, and shortly after that the cave-in occurred. He became terrified and returned to the village. He found his mother very upset, since she thought he had left for Oraibi, forty miles distant, as he had threatened to do. This would have been a long and dangerous trip for an eleven-year-old to make alone. He was careful to tell her where he had been and what he had done. It appears that Don's only weapon for turning against her was to attempt his own death. There is an evident parallel to Kennard's cases, mentioned earlier, in which an individual wills his death just to be ""mean"" to survivors. It may be that Don chose this passive mode of self-slaughter, simply waiting for the fatal moment, in order to avoid complete disobedience of the strong taboo against suicide."	No evidence	x	child	The crisis which occurred brings out the degree to which he had become unable to express direct aggression against his elders in the course of his socialization. He criticized his father's brother's little boy for being a crybaby. His mother, who was caring for the child, became angry and struck Don, and he went off to the foothills and dug a pit in the sand. 	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The crisis which occurred brings out the degree to which he had become unable to express direct aggression against his elders in the course of his socialization. He criticized his father's brother's little boy for being a crybaby. His mother, who was caring for the child, became angry and struck Don, and he went off to the foothills and dug a pit in the sand. 	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	bury_alive	"This would have been a long and dangerous trip for an eleven-year-old to make alone. He was careful to tell her where he had been and what he had done. It appears that Don's only weapon for turning against her was to attempt his own death. There is an evident parallel to Kennard's cases, mentioned earlier, in which an individual wills his death just to be ""mean"" to survivors. It may be that Don chose this passive mode of self-slaughter, simply waiting for the fatal moment, in order to avoid complete disobedience of the strong taboo against suicide."	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	mother	female	na	Evidence for	male	mother	Evidence for		no evidence	threat,attempt	11	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	The crisis which occurred brings out the degree to which he had become unable to express direct aggression against his elders in the course of his socialization. He criticized his father's brother's little boy for being a crybaby. 	6	x	x	x	no	The problem of aggression is highlighted by an episode at Moenkopi in the summer vacation of Don's eleventh year. The crisis which occurred brings out the degree to which he had become unable to express direct aggression against his elders in the course of his socialization.	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	He found his mother very upset, since she thought he had left for Oraibi, forty miles distant, as he had threatened to do. This would have been a long and dangerous trip for an eleven-year-old to make alone. He was careful to tell her where he had been and what he had done. It appears that Don's only weapon for turning against her was to attempt his own death.	x	Evidence for	private	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
251	zgarfield	Case	Hopi	The fact of sudden illness required an explanation, and that explanation in Hopi terms was that witchcraft had been directed against her. Once sick, however, she failed to show the proper attitude toward regaining her health and continuing [p. 111] life. The extremely old, it has been seen, may have wills too weak to enable them to survive. Since Don's mother, though old, was still vigorous until her sickness, Don took her refusal to turn her will to good purpose as a deliberate effort at suicide.	No evidence	x	elderly	Since Don's mother, though old, was still vigorous until her sickness, Don took her refusal to turn her will to good purpose as a deliberate effort at suicide.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	will to die	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	female		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	severe	other	x		x	x		yes	 failed to show the proper attitude toward regaining her health and continuing [p. 111] life	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	sickness	No evidence	na	na	Evidence against		firsthand
251	syme	Case	Hopi	The fact of sudden illness required an explanation, and that explanation in Hopi terms was that witchcraft had been directed against her. Once sick, however, she failed to show the proper attitude toward regaining her health and continuing [p. 111] life. The extremely old, it has been seen, may have wills too weak to enable them to survive. Since Don's mother, though old, was still vigorous until her sickness, Don took her refusal to turn her will to good purpose as a deliberate effort at suicide.	Evidence for	x	elderly	The fact of sudden illness required an explanation, and that explanation in Hopi terms was that witchcraft had been directed against her. Once sick, however, she failed to show the proper attitude toward regaining her health and continuing [p. 111] life. The extremely old, it has been seen, may have wills too weak to enable them to survive. Since Don's mother, though old, was still vigorous until her sickness, Don took her refusal to turn her will to good purpose as a deliberate effort at suicide.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	will to die	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	x	3	x	x	witchcraft	no	x	The fact of sudden illness required an explanation, and that explanation in Hopi terms was that witchcraft had been directed against her. Once sick, however, she failed to show the proper attitude toward regaining her health and continuing [p. 111] life. The extremely old, it has been seen, may have wills too weak to enable them to survive. Since Don's mother, though old, was still vigorous until her sickness, Don took her refusal to turn her will to good purpose as a deliberate effort at suicide.	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	The fact of sudden illness required an explanation, and that explanation in Hopi terms was that witchcraft had been directed against her. Once sick, however, she failed to show the proper attitude toward regaining her health and continuing [p. 111] life. The extremely old, it has been seen, may have wills too weak to enable them to survive. Since Don's mother, though old, was still vigorous until her sickness, Don took her refusal to turn her will to good purpose as a deliberate effort at suicide.	No evidence	na	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
252	zgarfield	Cultural model	Hopi	"There were no omens or dreams for telling the outcome of a fight save the omen noted below. In actual fighting, however, a man ""might have a feeling that one of the enemy was going to kill him, and he was sure to be killed by this man."" At times, on the night before a fight, the spirit of a man, wearing the costume the man intended to dress in on the next day, went to the enemy camp and showed itself to one of the enemy. The spirit cut its wrist, let the blood drip into a hole twelve inches deep, and covered up the hole with sand. Next day, in the actual fighting the man felt weak and was easily killed by the enemy who recognized the clothes the spirit wore on the previous night's visit. The only reason advanced for this belief was that some men got tired of life and wanted to be killed."	Evidence for	x	adult	The spirit cut its wrist, let the blood drip into a hole twelve inches deep, and covered up the hole with sand. Next day, in the actual fighting the man felt weak and was easily killed by the enemy who recognized the clothes the spirit wore on the previous night's visit. The only reason advanced for this belief was that some men got tired of life and wanted to be killed.	group conflict	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The spirit cut its wrist, let the blood drip into a hole twelve inches deep, and covered up the hole with sand. Next day, in the actual fighting the man felt weak and was easily killed by the enemy who recognized the clothes the spirit wore on the previous night's visit. The only reason advanced for this belief was that some men got tired of life and wanted to be killed.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	combat	unknown	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
252	syme	Cultural model	Hopi	"There were no omens or dreams for telling the outcome of a fight save the omen noted below. In actual fighting, however, a man ""might have a feeling that one of the enemy was going to kill him, and he was sure to be killed by this man."" At times, on the night before a fight, the spirit of a man, wearing the costume the man intended to dress in on the next day, went to the enemy camp and showed itself to one of the enemy. The spirit cut its wrist, let the blood drip into a hole twelve inches deep, and covered up the hole with sand. Next day, in the actual fighting the man felt weak and was easily killed by the enemy who recognized the clothes the spirit wore on the previous night's visit. The only reason advanced for this belief was that some men got tired of life and wanted to be killed."	Evidence for	x	young adult,adult	The only reason advanced for this belief was that some men got tired of life and wanted to be killed.	group conflict,unknown	No evidence	na	Evidence for	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	popular	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	combat	The only reason advanced for this belief was that some men got tired of life and wanted to be killed.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	outgroup	na	na	No evidence	male	x	Evidence against		war,combat,witness violence,perpetrate violence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	The only reason advanced for this belief was that some men got tired of life and wanted to be killed.	x	x	no	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	no	No evidence	unknown	na
253	zgarfield	Cultural model	Hopi	"Homicide by arrangement. In connection with the belief just mentioned, informants noted the former occurrence in peace time or in war of the practice of arranged suicides or murders. A man whose wife had left him for another man punished her with shame and remorse in this manner: he sought out a Navaho and arranged with the Navaho to kill him on an appointed day, which might be the day when fighting occurred. The man cut his wrist and drained blood into a gourd container which he gave to the Navaho to bury in a hole in the ground. ""This weakened the man: it was as if he buried his breath, and it was a sign of his honest intentions."" On the appointed day the man told a friend what he had done, and why, and where he would be found later. The Navaho killed the voluntary victim in his corn field or in the fight and took in payment the turquoise or bead necklace around his neck. People came from the village and buried the man in the field. One who preferred not to make such a dramatic sacrifice arranged with a Navaho to kill the adulterer, or else kill both himself and the adulterer."	No evidence	x	adult	Homicide by arrangement. In connection with the belief just mentioned, informants noted the former occurrence in peace time or in war of the practice of arranged suicides or murders. A man whose wife had left him for another man punished her with shame and remorse in this manner: he sought out a Navaho and arranged with the Navaho to kill him on an appointed day, which might be the day when fighting occurred	interpersonal confli,spirit attack	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Homicide by arrangement. In connection with the belief just mentioned, informants noted the former occurrence in peace time or in war of the practice of arranged suicides or murders. A man whose wife had left him for another man punished her with shame and remorse in this manner: he sought out a Navaho and arranged with the Navaho to kill him on an appointed day, which might be the day when fighting occurred	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	A man whose wife had left him for another man punished her with shame and remorse in this manner: he sought out a Navaho and arranged with the Navaho to kill him on an appointed day, which might be the day when fighting occurred. 	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	other	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	"The Navaho killed the voluntary victim in his corn field or in the fight and took in payment the turquoise or bead necklace around his neck. People came from the village and buried the man in the field. One who preferred not to make such a dramatic sacrifice arranged with a Navaho to kill the adulterer, or else kill both himself and the adulterer.
"	yes	1	x	x	x		public	yes	No evidence		firsthand
253	syme	Cultural model	Hopi	"Homicide by arrangement. In connection with the belief just mentioned, informants noted the former occurrence in peace time or in war of the practice of arranged suicides or murders. A man whose wife had left him for another man punished her with shame and remorse in this manner: he sought out a Navaho and arranged with the Navaho to kill him on an appointed day, which might be the day when fighting occurred. The man cut his wrist and drained blood into a gourd container which he gave to the Navaho to bury in a hole in the ground. ""This weakened the man: it was as if he buried his breath, and it was a sign of his honest intentions."" On the appointed day the man told a friend what he had done, and why, and where he would be found later. The Navaho killed the voluntary victim in his corn field or in the fight and took in payment the turquoise or bead necklace around his neck. People came from the village and buried the man in the field. One who preferred not to make such a dramatic sacrifice arranged with a Navaho to kill the adulterer, or else kill both himself and the adulterer."	Evidence for	x	young adult,adult,unknown	In connection with the belief just mentioned, informants noted the former occurrence in peace time or in war of the practice of arranged suicides or murders. A man whose wife had left him for another man punished her with shame and remorse in this manner: he sought out a Navaho and arranged with the Navaho to kill him on an appointed day, which might be the day when fighting occurred.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	ask_someone_else	Homicide by arrangement. In connection with the belief just mentioned, informants noted the former occurrence in peace time or in war of the practice of arranged suicides or murders. A man whose wife had left him for another man punished her with shame and remorse in this manner: he sought out a Navaho and arranged with the Navaho to kill him on an appointed day, which might be the day when fighting occurred.  	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	ex wife	Evidence against		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	"The man cut his wrist and drained blood into a gourd container which he gave to the Navaho to bury in a hole in the ground. ""This weakened the man: it was as if he buried his breath, and it was a sign of his honest intentions."" On the appointed day the man told a friend what he had done, and why, and where he would be found later. "	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	People came from the village and buried the man in the field. One who preferred not to make such a dramatic sacrifice arranged with a Navaho to kill the adulterer, or else kill both himself and the adulterer	not stated	1	x	People came from the village and buried the man in the field. One who preferred not to make such a dramatic sacrifice arranged with a Navaho to kill the adulterer, or else kill both himself and the adulterer	x	No evidence	public	yes	No evidence	unknown	na
254	zgarfield	Cultural model	Hopi	"At first glance, the Hopi patterns appeared to confirm the notion that the stresses of acculturation accounted for the deaths from alcoholism, suicide, and homicide, which were found most frequently in the off-reservation border towns and in the ""progressive"" villages of Polacca, Kiqtsmovi (New Orayvi), Tuba City, and the government settlement in Keams Canyon. Further investigation, however, revealed that deviant behavior arose in all the villages, but the ""traditional"" villages expelled the offenders, who later died away from the reservation or in the ""progressive"" villages (Levy, Kunitz, and Henderson 1987). [p. xiv] We found that the children of marriages between Hopis and non-Hopis, between Hopis and the Haano Tewas of First Mesa, and between Hopis from different mesas were at greater risk for alcoholism and suicide than were the children of Hopi parents from the same village or mesa. These marriages were breaches of the well-documented rule of village endogamy. Using this crude measure of status, we found that the risk for social pathology was highest among the children of ""cross-status"" marriages in Hotvela and the Second Mesa villages."	No evidence	x	young adult,adult	" At first glance, the Hopi patterns appeared to confirm the notion that the stresses of acculturation accounted for the deaths from alcoholism, suicide, and homicide, which were found most frequently in the off-reservation border towns and in the ""progressive"" villages of Polacca, Kiqtsmovi (New Orayvi), Tuba City, and the government settlement in Keams Canyon. Further investigation, however, revealed that deviant behavior arose in all the villages, but the ""traditional"" villages expelled the offenders, who later died away from the reservation or in the ""progressive"" villages "	interpersonal confli,group conflict	Evidence for	other	Evidence for	"We found that the children of marriages between Hopis and non-Hopis, between Hopis and the Haano Tewas of First Mesa, and between Hopis from different mesas were at greater risk for alcoholism and suicide than were the children of Hopi parents from the same village or mesa. These marriages were breaches of the well-documented rule of village endogamy. Using this crude measure of status, we found that the risk for social pathology was highest among the children of ""cross-status"" marriages in Hotvela and the Second Mesa villages."	unknown	etic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na		No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	other	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	We found that the children of marriages between Hopis and non-Hopis, between Hopis and the Haano Tewas of First Mesa, and between Hopis from different mesas were at greater risk for alcoholism and suicide than were the children of Hopi parents from the same village or mesa. 		x	x		unknown	stresses	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence for		firsthand
254	syme	Cultural model	Hopi	"At first glance, the Hopi patterns appeared to confirm the notion that the stresses of acculturation accounted for the deaths from alcoholism, suicide, and homicide, which were found most frequently in the off-reservation border towns and in the ""progressive"" villages of Polacca, Kiqtsmovi (New Orayvi), Tuba City, and the government settlement in Keams Canyon. Further investigation, however, revealed that deviant behavior arose in all the villages, but the ""traditional"" villages expelled the offenders, who later died away from the reservation or in the ""progressive"" villages (Levy, Kunitz, and Henderson 1987). [p. xiv] We found that the children of marriages between Hopis and non-Hopis, between Hopis and the Haano Tewas of First Mesa, and between Hopis from different mesas were at greater risk for alcoholism and suicide than were the children of Hopi parents from the same village or mesa. These marriages were breaches of the well-documented rule of village endogamy. Using this crude measure of status, we found that the risk for social pathology was highest among the children of ""cross-status"" marriages in Hotvela and the Second Mesa villages."	No evidence	x	unknown	"At first glance, the Hopi patterns appeared to confirm the notion that the stresses of acculturation accounted for the deaths from alcoholism, suicide, and homicide, which were found most frequently in the off-reservation border towns and in the ""progressive"" villages of Polacca, Kiqtsmovi (New Orayvi), Tuba City, and the government settlement in Keams Canyon. Further investigation, however, revealed that deviant behavior arose in all the villages, but the ""traditional"" villages expelled the offenders, who later died away from the reservation or in the ""progressive"" villages (Levy, Kunitz, and Henderson 1987). [p. xiv] We found that the children of marriages between Hopis and non-Hopis, between Hopis and the Haano Tewas of First Mesa, and between Hopis from different mesas were at greater risk for alcoholism and suicide than were the children of Hopi parents from the same village or mesa. These marriages were breaches of the well-documented rule of village endogamy. Using this crude measure of status, we found that the risk for social pathology was highest among the children of ""cross-status"" marriages in Hotvela and the Second Mesa villages."	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	substance abuse	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	both	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	"At first glance, the Hopi patterns appeared to confirm the notion that the stresses of acculturation accounted for the deaths from alcoholism, suicide, and homicide, which were found most frequently in the off-reservation border towns and in the ""progressive"" villages of Polacca, Kiqtsmovi (New Orayvi), Tuba City, and the government settlement in Keams Canyon. Further investigation, however, revealed that deviant behavior arose in all the villages, but the ""traditional"" villages expelled the offenders, who later died away from the reservation or in the ""progressive"" villages (Levy, Kunitz, and Henderson 1987). [p. xiv] We found that the children of marriages between Hopis and non-Hopis, between Hopis and the Haano Tewas of First Mesa, and between Hopis from different mesas were at greater risk for alcoholism and suicide than were the children of Hopi parents from the same village or mesa. These marriages were breaches of the well-documented rule of village endogamy. Using this crude measure of status, we found that the risk for social pathology was highest among the children of ""cross-status"" marriages in Hotvela and the Second Mesa villages."	x	high homicide rate,assoc. alcoholism,assoc. social pathology	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	associated with social pathology	x	x	No evidence	na	no	Evidence for	low	na
255	zgarfield	Case	Hopi	"At some point, the sons of Qyahongnm held the position of Al chief, but the relationship between Talasvenqa and Qyahongnm is not clear. Kennard's genealogy lists them as sisters, and the 1900 census lists both as being about 60 years old. Titiev, on the other hand, says that Talasvenqa was the ""real"" grandmother of the two sons of Qyahongnm. In any event, Qyahongnm's older son became Al chief but went insane and died, after which the position passed to his younger brother who also went insane and died. This family was Friendly, as [p. 106] was that of another sister, Nakwahongqa. The oldest sister, Kwayowuuti, also a Friendly, is also said to have been insane. She decided to go to Munqapi but committed suicide by jumping into Coal Canyon on the journey there."	No evidence	x	adult	In any event, Qyahongnm's older son became Al chief but went insane and died, after which the position passed to his younger brother who also went insane and died. This family was Friendly, as [p. 106] was that of another sister, Nakwahongqa. The oldest sister, Kwayowuuti, also a Friendly, is also said to have been insane. She decided to go to Munqapi but committed suicide by jumping into Coal Canyon on the journey there.	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	brother	unknown	unknown	No evidence	jumping	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	x	x	In any event, Qyahongnm's older son became Al chief but went insane and died, after which the position passed to his younger brother who also went insane and died. This family was Friendly, as [p. 106] was that of another sister, Nakwahongqa. The oldest sister, Kwayowuuti, also a Friendly, is also said to have been insane. She decided to go to Munqapi but committed suicide by jumping into Coal Canyon on the journey there.	x	not stated	1	In any event, Qyahongnm's older son became Al chief but went insane and died, after which the position passed to his younger brother who also went insane and died. This family was Friendly, as [p. 106] was that of another sister, Nakwahongqa. The oldest sister, Kwayowuuti, also a Friendly, is also said to have been insane. She decided to go to Munqapi but committed suicide by jumping into Coal Canyon on the journey there.	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		unknown
255	syme	Case	Hopi	"At some point, the sons of Qyahongnm held the position of Al chief, but the relationship between Talasvenqa and Qyahongnm is not clear. Kennard's genealogy lists them as sisters, and the 1900 census lists both as being about 60 years old. Titiev, on the other hand, says that Talasvenqa was the ""real"" grandmother of the two sons of Qyahongnm. In any event, Qyahongnm's older son became Al chief but went insane and died, after which the position passed to his younger brother who also went insane and died. This family was Friendly, as [p. 106] was that of another sister, Nakwahongqa. The oldest sister, Kwayowuuti, also a Friendly, is also said to have been insane. She decided to go to Munqapi but committed suicide by jumping into Coal Canyon on the journey there."	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	brother	unknown	unknown	No evidence	jumping	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	"Titiev, on the other hand, says that Talasvenqa was the ""real"" grandmother of the two sons of Qyahongnm. In any event, Qyahongnm's older son became Al chief but went insane and died, after which the position passed to his younger brother who also went insane and died. This family was Friendly, as [p. 106] was that of another sister, Nakwahongqa. The oldest sister, Kwayowuuti, also a Friendly, is also said to have been insane. She decided to go to Munqapi but committed suicide by jumping into Coal Canyon on the journey there."	x	not stated	1	The oldest sister, Kwayowuuti, also a Friendly, is also said to have been insane. She decided to go to Munqapi but committed suicide by jumping into Coal Canyon on the journey there.	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	high	unknown
256	zgarfield	Case	Hopi	"One night the next spring we were sleeping on our housetop when I awoke and went to the edge of the roof to make water. Looking over at the next house, I saw a man crawling along the roof. I slipped over to my mother and awakened her. As we [p. 75] watched together, the man stood up and began to run as if to jump off the roof. He stopped abruptly and said, ""I am not a man, I am afraid to die."" Then he ran again, put his head down on the edge of the roof, somersaulted over, and landed hard on the ground with a moan. People awoke and ran to him. I stepped over onto his roof, went to the edge where he jumped off, and looked down. His father and mother had come up and were standing over him, scolding him and saying, ""Why did you jump off? You deserve to suffer."" Men carried him into his house with a broken leg. A Hopi doctor came and bound it with splints. Later the missionary Voth tried to save the man's life, but the leg became infected and he died."	No evidence	x	adult	"Looking over at the next house, I saw a man crawling along the roof. I slipped over to my mother and awakened her. As we [p. 75] watched together, the man stood up and began to run as if to jump off the roof. He stopped abruptly and said, ""I am not a man, I am afraid to die."" Then he ran again, put his head down on the edge of the roof, somersaulted over, and landed hard on the ground with a moan. "	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"People awoke and ran to him. I stepped over onto his roof, went to the edge where he jumped off, and looked down. His father and mother had come up and were standing over him, scolding him and saying, ""Why did you jump off? You deserve to suffer."" Men carried him into his house with a broken leg. A Hopi doctor came and bound it with splints. Later the missionary Voth tried to save the man's life, but the leg became infected and he died."	x	No evidence	public	no	No evidence		first person
256	syme	Case	Hopi	"One night the next spring we were sleeping on our housetop when I awoke and went to the edge of the roof to make water. Looking over at the next house, I saw a man crawling along the roof. I slipped over to my mother and awakened her. As we [p. 75] watched together, the man stood up and began to run as if to jump off the roof. He stopped abruptly and said, ""I am not a man, I am afraid to die."" Then he ran again, put his head down on the edge of the roof, somersaulted over, and landed hard on the ground with a moan. People awoke and ran to him. I stepped over onto his roof, went to the edge where he jumped off, and looked down. His father and mother had come up and were standing over him, scolding him and saying, ""Why did you jump off? You deserve to suffer."" Men carried him into his house with a broken leg. A Hopi doctor came and bound it with splints. Later the missionary Voth tried to save the man's life, but the leg became infected and he died."	Evidence against	x	adult,unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"His father and mother had come up and were standing over him, scolding him and saying, ""Why did you jump off? You deserve to suffer."" Men carried him into his house with a broken leg. A Hopi doctor came and bound it with splints. Later the missionary Voth tried to save the man's life, but the leg became infected and he died."	x	No evidence	private	no	No evidence	unknown	na
257	zgarfield	Cultural model	Hopi	"Allen's word for such willful dying is qvisyuta; and his word for madness (angriness) is itsivyuta. [Even contemporary Hopi believe that girls are ""meaner"" than boys, and give more trouble to their parents. However, both sexes are supposed to be capable of willful suicide (qvisti)."	No evidence	x	young adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	both		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		firsthand
257	syme	Cultural model	Hopi	"Allen's word for such willful dying is qvisyuta; and his word for madness (angriness) is itsivyuta. [Even contemporary Hopi believe that girls are ""meaner"" than boys, and give more trouble to their parents. However, both sexes are supposed to be capable of willful suicide (qvisti)."	No evidence	x	child,young adult,unknown	"Allen's word for such willful dying is qvisyuta; and his word for madness (angriness) is itsivyuta. [Even contemporary Hopi believe that girls are ""meaner"" than boys, and give more trouble to their parents. However, both sexes are supposed to be capable of willful suicide (qvisti)."	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Allen's word for such willful dying is qvisyuta; and his word for madness (angriness) is itsivyuta. [Even contemporary Hopi believe that girls are ""meaner"" than boys, and give more trouble to their parents. However, both sexes are supposed to be capable of willful suicide (qvisti)."	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	will to die	"Allen's word for such willful dying is qvisyuta; and his word for madness (angriness) is itsivyuta. [Even contemporary Hopi believe that girls are ""meaner"" than boys, and give more trouble to their parents. However, both sexes are supposed to be capable of willful suicide (qvisti)."	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	more often women	parents	No evidence		no evidence	unknown	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	no	"Allen's word for such willful dying is qvisyuta; and his word for madness (angriness) is itsivyuta. [Even contemporary Hopi believe that girls are ""meaner"" than boys, and give more trouble to their parents. "	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
258	zgarfield	Case	Hopi	Frank Siemptiwa came in for a long chat. He said that about ten years ago he had been taken to New Zealand and Australia with a troupe of Hopi dancers. He had brought back about $1,500 and had spent about $800 on a truck for one of his sons, Ray Siemptiwa, at New Oraibi. This son's wife had committed suicide by taking strychnine, but Frank claimed to know no further details. [At present Ray lives and works in Flagstaff. Frank said that he himself had had three children by his first wife, Kiktcmana, who ran around too much and had had a bastard, but that she was otherwise all right. He divorced her and remarried. He pointed out that he didn't get angry and that he didn't worry or quarrel because this was no good and made a person ill.] In fact, Frank said that Ned got sick so often because he got angry too quickly and worried too much.	No evidence	x	adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	poisoning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		yes	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence against		firsthand
258	syme	Case	Hopi	Frank Siemptiwa came in for a long chat. He said that about ten years ago he had been taken to New Zealand and Australia with a troupe of Hopi dancers. He had brought back about $1,500 and had spent about $800 on a truck for one of his sons, Ray Siemptiwa, at New Oraibi. This son's wife had committed suicide by taking strychnine, but Frank claimed to know no further details. [At present Ray lives and works in Flagstaff. Frank said that he himself had had three children by his first wife, Kiktcmana, who ran around too much and had had a bastard, but that she was otherwise all right. He divorced her and remarried. He pointed out that he didn't get angry and that he didn't worry or quarrel because this was no good and made a person ill.] In fact, Frank said that Ned got sick so often because he got angry too quickly and worried too much.	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	husband's meanness according to record 260 	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	martial conflict	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	poisoning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult,unknown	husband	male	na	Evidence for	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	unfaithful to spouse	4	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	secondhand
259	zgarfield	Case	Hopi	Iona, a good-looking girl from Moenkopi and clan sister of Ida, had been made pregnant by a Zui man. Iona had wanted to marry him, but her parents objected so strenuously that she fainted and died while Hotevilla was staging a Patcava. Her intentional death had made the neighbors very resentful of her parents.	No evidence	x	young adult	Iona, a good-looking girl from Moenkopi and clan sister of Ida, had been made pregnant by a Zui man. Iona had wanted to marry him, but her parents objected so strenuously that she fainted and died while Hotevilla was staging a Patcava. Her intentional death had made the neighbors very resentful of her parents.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Iona, a good-looking girl from Moenkopi and clan sister of Ida, had been made pregnant by a Zui man. Iona had wanted to marry him, but her parents objected so strenuously that she fainted and died while Hotevilla was staging a Patcava. Her intentional death had made the neighbors very resentful of her parents.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	will to die	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	x	Iona had wanted to marry him, but her parents objected so strenuously that she fainted and died while Hotevilla was staging a Patcava. 	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence against		firsthand
259	syme	Case	Hopi	Iona, a good-looking girl from Moenkopi and clan sister of Ida, had been made pregnant by a Zui man. Iona had wanted to marry him, but her parents objected so strenuously that she fainted and died while Hotevilla was staging a Patcava. Her intentional death had made the neighbors very resentful of her parents.	No evidence	x	young adult	Iona, a good-looking girl from Moenkopi and clan sister of Ida, had been made pregnant by a Zui man. Iona had wanted to marry him, but her parents objected so strenuously that she fainted and died while Hotevilla was staging a Patcava. Her intentional death had made the neighbors very resentful of her parents.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Iona, a good-looking girl from Moenkopi and clan sister of Ida, had been made pregnant by a Zui man. Iona had wanted to marry him, but her parents objected so strenuously that she fainted and died while Hotevilla was staging a Patcava. Her intentional death had made the neighbors very resentful of her parents.	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated,will to die	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	pregnancy	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	Her intentional death had made the neighbors very resentful of her parents.	x	Evidence for	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
260	zgarfield	Case	Hopi	"Thurs. Feb. 15. In the morning Ida got talking about qvisti (""willful suicide""). She claimed not to know how to go qvisti, although she admitted that sometimes she got very angry. She explained that the difference depended on sulking and maintaining a sullen silence. Delia, Jenny, and Ada are supposed to have the capacity for going qvisti. However, Luke has no patience with this sort of behavior, and when Ada tried it, he made her snap out of it by spanking her."	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	will to die	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"Delia, Jenny, and Ada are supposed to have the capacity for going qvisti. However, Luke has no patience with this sort of behavior, and when Ada tried it, he made her snap out of it by spanking her.
"	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		secondhand
260	syme	Case	Hopi	"Thurs. Feb. 15. In the morning Ida got talking about qvisti (""willful suicide""). She claimed not to know how to go qvisti, although she admitted that sometimes she got very angry. She explained that the difference depended on sulking and maintaining a sullen silence. Delia, Jenny, and Ada are supposed to have the capacity for going qvisti. However, Luke has no patience with this sort of behavior, and when Ada tried it, he made her snap out of it by spanking her."	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	"Thurs. Feb. 15. In the morning Ida got talking about qvisti (""willful suicide""). She claimed not to know how to go qvisti, although she admitted that sometimes she got very angry. She explained that the difference depended on sulking and maintaining a sullen silence. Delia, Jenny, and Ada are supposed to have the capacity for going qvisti. However, Luke has no patience with this sort of behavior, and when Ada tried it, he made her snap out of it by spanking her."	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Thurs. Feb. 15. In the morning Ida got talking about qvisti (""willful suicide""). She claimed not to know how to go qvisti, although she admitted that sometimes she got very angry. She explained that the difference depended on sulking and maintaining a sullen silence. Delia, Jenny, and Ada are supposed to have the capacity for going qvisti. However, Luke has no patience with this sort of behavior, and when Ada tried it, he made her snap out of it by spanking her."	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	will to die	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult,unknown	unknown	male	na	No evidence	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	threat,ideation,attempt,unknown	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	going silent	5	x	x	x	unknown	She claimed not to know how to go qvisti, although she admitted that sometimes she got very angry. She explained that the difference depended on sulking and maintaining a sullen silence. 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	However, Luke has no patience with this sort of behavior, and when Ada tried it, he made her snap out of it by spanking her.	x	Evidence for	public	no	No evidence	unknown	firsthand
261	zgarfield	Case	Hopi	Delia is said sometimes to go qvisti temporarily, even though she is a married woman.	No evidence	x	adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	will to die	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		secondhand
261	syme	Case	Hopi	Delia is said sometimes to go qvisti temporarily, even though she is a married woman.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	will to die	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na		na	na	No evidence	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	threat,ideation,attempt,unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	na	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence	unknown	secondhand
262	zgarfield	Case	Hopi	It is now claimed positively that Roland's daughter, the wife of Leo Crane, is qvisti. She is acknowledged to be very ill and will probably die. Ruth got the news from Roland's wife while she was laundering at New Oraibi.	Evidence for	x	adult	"It is now claimed positively that Roland's daughter, the wife of Leo Crane, is qvisti. She is acknowledged to be very ill and will probably die. Ruth got the news from Roland's wife while she was laundering at New Oraibi.
"	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	will to die	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	female		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	plan	x	No evidence	chronic	other	x	3	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	She is acknowledged to be very ill and will probably die. 	No evidence	na	unknown	Evidence against		firsthand
262	syme	Case	Hopi	It is now claimed positively that Roland's daughter, the wife of Leo Crane, is qvisti. She is acknowledged to be very ill and will probably die. Ruth got the news from Roland's wife while she was laundering at New Oraibi.	Evidence for	x	young adult,unknown	illness	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	will to die	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	attempt,unknown	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	illness	No evidence	public	no	No evidence	unknown	secondhand
263	zgarfield	Cultural model	Hopi	"There is a current belief among the Hopi that boys have more tractable dispositions and better tempers than girls. When a boy has a fight with someone he ""doesn't mean it"" and soon gets over his anger, but when a girl quarrels she nurses her resentment for a long time afterwards. In fact, it is said that an angry girl may, out of self pity or to spite her parents, decide to die. In such an event she turns her face to the west and refuses to heed the good advice of parents, uncles or medicine men. After a time, even fear and late repentance are of no avail and, despite all efforts to save her, the girl withers away and dies. This type of wilful suicide is called qvisti and is carefully distinguished from other self inflicted deaths. Instances of girls dying qvisti are freely cited.21"	No evidence	x	young adult	In fact, it is said that an angry girl may, out of self pity or to spite her parents, decide to die. In such an event she turns her face to the west and refuses to heed the good advice of parents, uncles or medicine men. After a time, even fear and late repentance are of no avail and, despite all efforts to save her, the girl withers away and dies. This type of wilful suicide is called qvisti and is carefully distinguished from other self inflicted deaths. Instances of girls dying qvisti are freely cited	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	In fact, it is said that an angry girl may, out of self pity or to spite her parents, decide to die. In such an event she turns her face to the west and refuses to heed the good advice of parents, uncles or medicine men. After a time, even fear and late repentance are of no avail and, despite all efforts to save her, the girl withers away and dies. This type of wilful suicide is called qvisti and is carefully distinguished from other self inflicted deaths. Instances of girls dying qvisti are freely cited	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	will to die	 In fact, it is said that an angry girl may, out of self pity or to spite her parents, decide to die.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	female	parents	Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		no	angry	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	After a time, even fear and late repentance are of no avail and, despite all efforts to save her, the girl withers away and dies. This type of wilful suicide is called qvisti and is carefully distinguished from other self inflicted deaths. Instances of girls dying qvisti are freely cited.	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		firsthand
263	syme	Cultural model	Hopi	"There is a current belief among the Hopi that boys have more tractable dispositions and better tempers than girls. When a boy has a fight with someone he ""doesn't mean it"" and soon gets over his anger, but when a girl quarrels she nurses her resentment for a long time afterwards. In fact, it is said that an angry girl may, out of self pity or to spite her parents, decide to die. In such an event she turns her face to the west and refuses to heed the good advice of parents, uncles or medicine men. After a time, even fear and late repentance are of no avail and, despite all efforts to save her, the girl withers away and dies. This type of wilful suicide is called qvisti and is carefully distinguished from other self inflicted deaths. Instances of girls dying qvisti are freely cited.21"	No evidence	x	young adult,unknown	"There is a current belief among the Hopi that boys have more tractable dispositions and better tempers than girls. When a boy has a fight with someone he ""doesn't mean it"" and soon gets over his anger, but when a girl quarrels she nurses her resentment for a long time afterwards. In fact, it is said that an angry girl may, out of self pity or to spite her parents, decide to die. In such an event she turns her face to the west and refuses to heed the good advice of parents, uncles or medicine men. After a time, even fear and late repentance are of no avail and, despite all efforts to save her, the girl withers away and dies. This type of willful suicide is called qvisti and is carefully distinguished from other self inflicted deaths. Instances of girls dying qvisti are freely cited.21"	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"There is a current belief among the Hopi that boys have more tractable dispositions and better tempers than girls. When a boy has a fight with someone he ""doesn't mean it"" and soon gets over his anger, but when a girl quarrels she nurses her resentment for a long time afterwards. In fact, it is said that an angry girl may, out of self pity or to spite her parents, decide to die. In such an event she turns her face to the west and refuses to heed the good advice of parents, uncles or medicine men. After a time, even fear and late repentance are of no avail and, despite all efforts to save her, the girl withers away and dies. "	unknown	emic	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	other	No evidence	starvation,will to die	"There is a current belief among the Hopi that boys have more tractable dispositions and better tempers than girls. When a boy has a fight with someone he ""doesn't mean it"" and soon gets over his anger, but when a girl quarrels she nurses her resentment for a long time afterwards. In fact, it is said that an angry girl may, out of self pity or to spite her parents, decide to die. In such an event she turns her face to the west and refuses to heed the good advice of parents, uncles or medicine men. After a time, even fear and late repentance are of no avail and, despite all efforts to save her, the girl withers away and dies. This type of wilful suicide is called qvisti and is carefully distinguished from other self inflicted deaths. Instances of girls dying qvisti are freely cited.21"	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult,elder	kin	both	na	No evidence	female	parents	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	self pity, anger	x	x	x	not stated	1	"anorexia ""wither away"""	x	x	Evidence for	public	no	No evidence	unknown	na
264	zgarfield	Cultural model	Iroquois	"""They kill themselves by eating certain venomous herbs that they know to be a poison, which the married women much more often use to avenge themselves for the bad treatment of their husbands, leaving them thus the reproach of their death."""	Evidence for	x	adult	They kill themselves by eating certain venomous herbs that they know to be a poison, which the married women much more often use to avenge themselves for the bad treatment of their husbands, leaving them thus the reproach of their death	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	They kill themselves by eating certain venomous herbs that they know to be a poison, which the married women much more often use to avenge themselves for the bad treatment of their husbands, leaving them thus the reproach of their death	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	popular	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	poisoning	They kill themselves by eating certain venomous herbs that they know to be a poison, which the married women much more often use to avenge themselves for the bad treatment of their husbands, leaving them thus the reproach of their death	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	male	na	No evidence	more often women	spose	No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	They kill themselves by eating certain venomous herbs that they know to be a poison, which the married women much more often use to avenge themselves for the bad treatment of their husbands, leaving them thus the reproach of their death	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		unknown
264	syme	Cultural model	Iroquois	"""They kill themselves by eating certain venomous herbs that they know to be a poison, which the married women much more often use to avenge themselves for the bad treatment of their husbands, leaving them thus the reproach of their death."""	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,unknown	"""They kill themselves by eating certain venomous herbs that they know to be a poison, which the married women much more often use to avenge themselves for the bad treatment of their husbands, leaving them thus the reproach of their death."""	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"""They kill themselves by eating certain venomous herbs that they know to be a poison, which the married women much more often use to avenge themselves for the bad treatment of their husbands, leaving them thus the reproach of their death."""	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	poisoning	"""They kill themselves by eating certain venomous herbs that they know to be a poison, which the married women much more often use to avenge themselves for the bad treatment of their husbands, leaving them thus the reproach of their death."""	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult,unknown	husband	male	na	No evidence	female	husband	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"""They kill themselves by eating certain venomous herbs that they know to be a poison, which the married women much more often use to avenge themselves for the bad treatment of their husbands, leaving them thus the reproach of their death."""	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
266	zgarfield	Cultural model	Iroquois	"The abysmal record of French attempts to educate native children in ""schools"" was due in large part to the violent negative reaction by Iroquoian children to discipline and regimentation. The children typically would either run away or withdraw into a state of melancholy and depression which made them physically ill.23 Such a state of depression could not be taken lightly, for Iroquoian children were known to have committed suicide if treated harshly by their parents (J.R. 14:37)."	Evidence for	x	child,young adult	The children typically would either run away or withdraw into a state of melancholy and depression which made them physically ill.23 Such a state of depression could not be taken lightly, for Iroquoian children were known to have committed suicide if treated harshly by their parents	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The children typically would either run away or withdraw into a state of melancholy and depression which made them physically ill.23 Such a state of depression could not be taken lightly, for Iroquoian children were known to have committed suicide if treated harshly by their parents	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	unknown		Evidence for	Evidence for	physical abuse	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		Iroquoian children were known to have committed suicide if treated harshly by their parents	x		unknown	state of melancholy and depression 	x	x	x	not stated	1	depression	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		firsthand
266	syme	Cultural model	Iroquois	"The abysmal record of French attempts to educate native children in ""schools"" was due in large part to the violent negative reaction by Iroquoian children to discipline and regimentation. The children typically would either run away or withdraw into a state of melancholy and depression which made them physically ill.23 Such a state of depression could not be taken lightly, for Iroquoian children were known to have committed suicide if treated harshly by their parents (J.R. 14:37)."	Evidence for	x	child,young adult,unknown	"The abysmal record of French attempts to educate native children in ""schools"" was due in large part to the violent negative reaction by Iroquoian children to discipline and regimentation. The children typically would either run away or withdraw into a state of melancholy and depression which made them physically ill.23 Such a state of depression could not be taken lightly, for Iroquoian children were known to have committed suicide if treated harshly by their parents (J.R. 14:37)."	interpersonal confli,other	Evidence for	physical abuse	Evidence for	Such a state of depression could not be taken lightly, for Iroquoian children were known to have committed suicide if treated harshly by their parents (J.R. 14:37).	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	depression	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult,unknown	parents	both	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	Evidence for		physical abuse	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	"The abysmal record of French attempts to educate native children in ""schools"" was due in large part to the violent negative reaction by Iroquoian children to discipline and regimentation. The children typically would either run away or withdraw into a state of melancholy and depression which made them physically ill.23 Such a state of depression could not be taken lightly, for Iroquoian children were known to have committed suicide if treated harshly by their parents (J.R. 14:37)."	x	x	no	"The abysmal record of French attempts to educate native children in ""schools"" was due in large part to the violent negative reaction by Iroquoian children to discipline and regimentation. The children typically would either run away or withdraw into a state of melancholy and depression which made them physically ill.23 Such a state of depression could not be taken lightly, for Iroquoian children were known to have committed suicide if treated harshly by their parents (J.R. 14:37)."	x	x	x	not stated	1	 Such a state of depression could not be taken lightly, for Iroquoian children were known to have committed suicide if treated harshly by their parents (J.R. 14:37).	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
267	zgarfield	Cultural model	Iroquois	"The Iroquois themselves recognized the intensity of their children's resentment at parental interference. ""Some Savages,"" reported Le Mercier of the Huron, ""told us that one of the principal reasons why they showed so much indulgence toward their children, was that when the children saw themselves treated by their parents with some severity, they usually resorted to extreme measures and hanged themselves, or ate of a certain root they call Audachienrra, which is a very quick poison.""18 The same fear was recorded among [p. 38] the Iroquois, including the Seneca, in 1657. And while suicides by frustrated children were not actually frequent, there are nevertheless a number of recorded cases of suicide where parental interference was the avowed cause. And mutatis mutandis, there was another rationalization for a policy of permissiveness: that the child who was harshly disciplined might grow up, some day, to mistreat his parents in revenge. This theory of child raising was not taken for granted by the Seneca; on the contrary, it was very explicitly recognized, discussed, and pondered. Handsome Lake himself, in later years, insisted that parents love and indulge their children."	No evidence	x	child	"""Some Savages,"" reported Le Mercier of the Huron, ""told us that one of the principal reasons why they showed so much indulgence toward their children, was that when the children saw themselves treated by their parents with some severity, they usually resorted to extreme measures and hanged themselves, or ate of a certain root they call Audachienrra, which is a very quick poison.""18 The same fear was recorded among [p. 38] the Iroquois, including the Seneca, in 1657. And while suicides by frustrated children were not actually frequent, there are nevertheless a number of recorded cases of suicide where parental interference was the avowed cause"	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"""Some Savages,"" reported Le Mercier of the Huron, ""told us that one of the principal reasons why they showed so much indulgence toward their children, was that when the children saw themselves treated by their parents with some severity, they usually resorted to extreme measures and hanged themselves, or ate of a certain root they call Audachienrra, which is a very quick poison.""18 The same fear was recorded among [p. 38] the Iroquois, including the Seneca, in 1657. And while suicides by frustrated children were not actually frequent, there are nevertheless a number of recorded cases of suicide where parental interference was the avowed cause"	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	hanging,poisoning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	na	unknown	Evidence against		firsthand
267	syme	Cultural model	Iroquois	"The Iroquois themselves recognized the intensity of their children's resentment at parental interference. ""Some Savages,"" reported Le Mercier of the Huron, ""told us that one of the principal reasons why they showed so much indulgence toward their children, was that when the children saw themselves treated by their parents with some severity, they usually resorted to extreme measures and hanged themselves, or ate of a certain root they call Audachienrra, which is a very quick poison.""18 The same fear was recorded among [p. 38] the Iroquois, including the Seneca, in 1657. And while suicides by frustrated children were not actually frequent, there are nevertheless a number of recorded cases of suicide where parental interference was the avowed cause. And mutatis mutandis, there was another rationalization for a policy of permissiveness: that the child who was harshly disciplined might grow up, some day, to mistreat his parents in revenge. This theory of child raising was not taken for granted by the Seneca; on the contrary, it was very explicitly recognized, discussed, and pondered. Handsome Lake himself, in later years, insisted that parents love and indulge their children."	No evidence	x	child,young adult,unknown	" The Iroquois themselves recognized the intensity of their children's resentment at parental interference. ""Some Savages,"" reported Le Mercier of the Huron, ""told us that one of the principal reasons why they showed so much indulgence toward their children, was that when the children saw themselves treated by their parents with some severity, they usually resorted to extreme measures and hanged themselves, or ate of a certain root they call Audachienrra, which is a very quick poison.""18 The same fear was recorded among [p. 38] the Iroquois, including the Seneca, in 1657. And while suicides by frustrated children were not actually frequent, there are nevertheless a number of recorded cases of suicide where parental interference was the avowed cause. And mutatis mutandis, there was another rationalization for a policy of permissiveness: that the child who was harshly disciplined might grow up, some day, to mistreat his parents in revenge. This theory of child raising was not taken for granted by the Seneca; on the contrary, it was very explicitly recognized, discussed, and pondered. Handsome Lake himself, in later years, insisted that parents love and indulge their children."	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	" The Iroquois themselves recognized the intensity of their children's resentment at parental interference. ""Some Savages,"" reported Le Mercier of the Huron, ""told us that one of the principal reasons why they showed so much indulgence toward their children, was that when the children saw themselves treated by their parents with some severity, they usually resorted to extreme measures and hanged themselves, or ate of a certain root they call Audachienrra, which is a very quick poison.""18 The same fear was recorded among [p. 38] the Iroquois, including the Seneca, in 1657. And while suicides by frustrated children were not actually frequent, there are nevertheless a number of recorded cases of suicide where parental interference was the avowed cause. And mutatis mutandis, there was another rationalization for a policy of permissiveness: that the child who was harshly disciplined might grow up, some day, to mistreat his parents in revenge. This theory of child raising was not taken for granted by the Seneca; on the contrary, it was very explicitly recognized, discussed, and pondered. Handsome Lake himself, in later years, insisted that parents love and indulge their children."	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	hanging,poisoning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult,unknown	parents	both	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	no	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
268	zgarfield	Case	Iroquois	One instance, however, was the suicide of Big Tree, who stabbed himself to death in Wayne's camp during the winter of 1793-94. Apparently he had felt publicly dishonored: He had been pro-American during the Revolution, had been an associate of Cornplanter's thereafter, had urged the western Indians to accept the American terms, and at the last was reputed to have become melancholic and deranged.36	No evidence	x	adult	One instance, however, was the suicide of Big Tree, who stabbed himself to death in Wayne's camp during the winter of 1793-94. Apparently he had felt publicly dishonored: He had been pro-American during the Revolution, had been an associate of Cornplanter's thereafter, had urged the western Indians to accept the American terms, and at the last was reputed to have become melancholic and deranged	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	One instance, however, was the suicide of Big Tree, who stabbed himself to death in Wayne's camp during the winter of 1793-94. Apparently he had felt publicly dishonored: He had been pro-American during the Revolution, had been an associate of Cornplanter's thereafter, had urged the western Indians to accept the American terms, and at the last was reputed to have become melancholic and deranged	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	stabbing	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	multiple social doma	both	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	publicly dishonored	x	x	x	not stated	1	melancholic and deranged	x	x	No evidence	unknown		No evidence		firsthand
268	syme	Case	Iroquois	One instance, however, was the suicide of Big Tree, who stabbed himself to death in Wayne's camp during the winter of 1793-94. Apparently he had felt publicly dishonored: He had been pro-American during the Revolution, had been an associate of Cornplanter's thereafter, had urged the western Indians to accept the American terms, and at the last was reputed to have become melancholic and deranged.36	No evidence	x	elderly	One instance, however, was the suicide of Big Tree, who stabbed himself to death in Wayne's camp during the winter of 1793-94. Apparently he had felt publicly dishonored: He had been pro-American during the Revolution, had been an associate of Cornplanter's thereafter, had urged the western Indians to accept the American terms, and at the last was reputed to have become melancholic and deranged.36	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	unknown	No evidence	stabbing	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	social group	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	unknown	dishonor, melancholy	x	x	x	not stated	1	deranged	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	high,unknown	unknown
269	zgarfield	Cultural model	Iroquois	"When sober, the Iroquois tended to be depressed and even suicidal. A sympathetic missionary at Buffalo Creek summarized this aspect [p. 201] of the problem: ""Indians, as has been observed, bear suffering with great fortitude, but at the end of this fortitude is desperation. Suicides are frequent among the Senecas. I apprehend this despondency is the principal cause of their intemperance. Most of the children and youth have an aversion to spirituous liquor, and rarely taste it until some trouble overtakes them. Their circumstances are peculiarly calculated to depress their spirits, especially these contiguous to white settlements. Their ancient manner of subsistence is broken up, and when they appear willing and desirous to turn their attention to agriculture, their ignorance, the inveteracy of their old habits, the disadvantages under which they labor, soon discourage them; though they struggle hard little is realized to their benefit, beside the continual dread they live in of losing their possessions. If they build they do not know who will inhabit.""35 An unusually strong tendency for the humiliated Iroquois to commit suicide during this period is not easy to document with specific cases."	No evidence	x	young adult,adult	Indians, as has been observed, bear suffering with great fortitude, but at the end of this fortitude is desperation. Suicides are frequent among the Senecas. I apprehend this despondency is the principal cause of their intemperance. 	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Their circumstances are peculiarly calculated to depress their spirits, especially these contiguous to white settlements. Their ancient manner of subsistence is broken up, and when they appear willing and desirous to turn their attention to agriculture, their ignorance, the inveteracy of their old habits, the disadvantages under which they labor, soon discourage them; though they struggle hard little is realized to their benefit, beside the continual dread they live in of losing their possessions. If they build they do not know who will inhabit.""35 An unusually strong tendency for the humiliated Iroquois to commit suicide during this period is not easy to document with specific cases.
"	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	depression	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	both		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	bear suffering with great fortitude	"Their ancient manner of subsistence is broken up, and when they appear willing and desirous to turn their attention to agriculture, their ignorance, the inveteracy of their old habits, the disadvantages under which they labor, soon discourage them; though they struggle hard little is realized to their benefit, beside the continual dread they live in of losing their possessions. If they build they do not know who will inhabit.""35 An unusually strong tendency for the humiliated Iroquois to commit suicide during this period is not easy to document with specific cases.
"	x	x	not stated	1	depressed	x	x	Evidence for	na	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
269	syme	Cultural model	Iroquois	"When sober, the Iroquois tended to be depressed and even suicidal. A sympathetic missionary at Buffalo Creek summarized this aspect [p. 201] of the problem: ""Indians, as has been observed, bear suffering with great fortitude, but at the end of this fortitude is desperation. Suicides are frequent among the Senecas. I apprehend this despondency is the principal cause of their intemperance. Most of the children and youth have an aversion to spirituous liquor, and rarely taste it until some trouble overtakes them. Their circumstances are peculiarly calculated to depress their spirits, especially these contiguous to white settlements. Their ancient manner of subsistence is broken up, and when they appear willing and desirous to turn their attention to agriculture, their ignorance, the inveteracy of their old habits, the disadvantages under which they labor, soon discourage them; though they struggle hard little is realized to their benefit, beside the continual dread they live in of losing their possessions. If they build they do not know who will inhabit.""35 An unusually strong tendency for the humiliated Iroquois to commit suicide during this period is not easy to document with specific cases."	No evidence	x	unknown	"When sober, the Iroquois tended to be depressed and even suicidal. A sympathetic missionary at Buffalo Creek summarized this aspect [p. 201] of the problem: ""Indians, as has been observed, bear suffering with great fortitude, but at the end of this fortitude is desperation. Suicides are frequent among the Senecas. I apprehend this despondency is the principal cause of their intemperance. Most of the children and youth have an aversion to spirituous liquor, and rarely taste it until some trouble overtakes them. Their circumstances are peculiarly calculated to depress their spirits, especially these contiguous to white settlements. Their ancient manner of subsistence is broken up, and when they appear willing and desirous to turn their attention to agriculture, their ignorance, the inveteracy of their old habits, the disadvantages under which they labor, soon discourage them; though they struggle hard little is realized to their benefit, beside the continual dread they live in of losing their possessions. If they build they do not know who will inhabit.""35 An unusually strong tendency for the humiliated Iroquois to commit suicide during this period is not easy to document with specific cases."	resource loss,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	depression	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	social group	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	ideation,completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	abstain from drinking	x	x	x	x	unknown	depressed, humiliation	despondency	x	x	not stated	1	depression, despondency	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	low	na
273	zgarfield	Cultural model	Klamath	How far great disparity of age occurs I do not know, but it does happen that an older man marries a young girl. A shaman for instance may be given a daughter by a man too poor to reward him otherwise. But it must not be thought that there is no choice. On the contrary, the majority of marriages follow the desire of the couples. Elopements take place and although the levirate is the rule, much depends on the widow's willingness. Yet a girl's consent is not necessary. Despite her protests she may be carried to her husband's home. If she runs home she is almost invariably taken back again. That she would be driven to suicide is doubtful; one informant never heard of such a thing; another stated she would hang herself and in this event her parents had t return the gifts of the groom.	No evidence	x	young adult	Elopements take place and although the levirate is the rule, much depends on the widow's willingness. Yet a girl's consent is not necessary. Despite her protests she may be carried to her husband's home. If she runs home she is almost invariably taken back again. That she would be driven to suicide is doubtful; one informant never heard of such a thing; another stated she would hang herself and in this event her parents had t return the gifts of the groom.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Elopements take place and although the levirate is the rule, much depends on the widow's willingness. Yet a girl's consent is not necessary. Despite her protests she may be carried to her husband's home. If she runs home she is almost invariably taken back again. That she would be driven to suicide is doubtful; one informant never heard of such a thing; another stated she would hang herself and in this event her parents had t return the gifts of the groom.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	multiple social doma	both	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	other	completion	x	No evidence		no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
273	syme	Cultural model	Klamath	How far great disparity of age occurs I do not know, but it does happen that an older man marries a young girl. A shaman for instance may be given a daughter by a man too poor to reward him otherwise. But it must not be thought that there is no choice. On the contrary, the majority of marriages follow the desire of the couples. Elopements take place and although the levirate is the rule, much depends on the widow's willingness. Yet a girl's consent is not necessary. Despite her protests she may be carried to her husband's home. If she runs home she is almost invariably taken back again. That she would be driven to suicide is doubtful; one informant never heard of such a thing; another stated she would hang herself and in this event her parents had t return the gifts of the groom.	No evidence	x	young adult	How far great disparity of age occurs I do not know, but it does happen that an older man marries a young girl. A shaman for instance may be given a daughter by a man too poor to reward him otherwise. But it must not be thought that there is no choice. On the contrary, the majority of marriages follow the desire of the couples. Elopements take place and although the levirate is the rule, much depends on the widow's willingness. Yet a girl's consent is not necessary. Despite her protests she may be carried to her husband's home. If she runs home she is almost invariably taken back again. That she would be driven to suicide is doubtful; one informant never heard of such a thing; another stated she would hang herself and in this event her parents had t return the gifts of the groom.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	How far great disparity of age occurs I do not know, but it does happen that an older man marries a young girl. A shaman for instance may be given a daughter by a man too poor to reward him otherwise. But it must not be thought that there is no choice. On the contrary, the majority of marriages follow the desire of the couples. Elopements take place and although the levirate is the rule, much depends on the widow's willingness. Yet a girl's consent is not necessary. Despite her protests she may be carried to her husband's home. If she runs home she is almost invariably taken back again. That she would be driven to suicide is doubtful; one informant never heard of such a thing; another stated she would hang herself and in this event her parents had t return the gifts of the groom.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	kin,husband	both	na	No evidence	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	That she would be driven to suicide is doubtful; one informant never heard of such a thing; another stated she would hang herself and in this event her parents had t return the gifts of the groom.	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
295	zgarfield	Case	Ojibwa	"Gilfillan wrote in 1901 that there had been only one case in 25 years, ""this being an elderly woman who hung herself at the gate in front of her door, after a family quarrel"" (Gilfillan, 1901, p. 60)."	No evidence	x	elderly	"Gilfillan wrote in 1901 that there had been only one case in 25 years, ""this being an elderly woman who hung herself at the gate in front of her door, after a family quarrel"" ("	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Gilfillan wrote in 1901 that there had been only one case in 25 years, ""this being an elderly woman who hung herself at the gate in front of her door, after a family quarrel"" ("	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	kin	unknown	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	family quarrel		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		documented_account
295	syme	Case	Ojibwa	"Gilfillan wrote in 1901 that there had been only one case in 25 years, ""this being an elderly woman who hung herself at the gate in front of her door, after a family quarrel"" (Gilfillan, 1901, p. 60)."	No evidence	x	elderly	"Gilfillan wrote in 1901 that there had been only one case in 25 years, ""this being an elderly woman who hung herself at the gate in front of her door, after a family quarrel"" (Gilfillan, 1901, p. 60)."	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Gilfillan wrote in 1901 that there had been only one case in 25 years, ""this being an elderly woman who hung herself at the gate in front of her door, after a family quarrel"" (Gilfillan, 1901, p. 60)."	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	kin	na	na	No evidence	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
296	zgarfield	Case	Ojibwa	Mrs. John Cochran's mother ordered the disposal of her own self by burning. At about 60 years, she ordered her brother-in-law to kill her, because she said she was becoming a windigo, and was afraid that she would eat people.2 Some bad Indian had done this to her. So she had the following orders executed: her brother-in-law was to put a rope around her neck, seat her and hit her once on the head with the blunt end of an axe (traditional mode of stunning bears and dogs). Then she would fall forward and be choked. Then they were to strip the tent of its belongings, and burn the tent with her. Her brother-in-law, not her husband, was to do this; if the latter did it she would not die.	No evidence	x	elderly	Mrs. John Cochran's mother ordered the disposal of her own self by burning. At about 60 years, she ordered her brother-in-law to kill her, because she said she was becoming a windigo, and was afraid that she would eat people.2 Some bad Indian had done this to her.	interpersonal confli,spirit attack	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Mrs. John Cochran's mother ordered the disposal of her own self by burning. At about 60 years, she ordered her brother-in-law to kill her, because she said she was becoming a windigo, and was afraid that she would eat people.2 Some bad Indian had done this to her.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging,ask_someone_else,burning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	~60	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	no	Evidence against		firsthand
296	syme	Case	Ojibwa	Mrs. John Cochran's mother ordered the disposal of her own self by burning. At about 60 years, she ordered her brother-in-law to kill her, because she said she was becoming a windigo, and was afraid that she would eat people.2 Some bad Indian had done this to her. So she had the following orders executed: her brother-in-law was to put a rope around her neck, seat her and hit her once on the head with the blunt end of an axe (traditional mode of stunning bears and dogs). Then she would fall forward and be choked. Then they were to strip the tent of its belongings, and burn the tent with her. Her brother-in-law, not her husband, was to do this; if the latter did it she would not die.	No evidence	x	elderly	Mrs. John Cochran's mother ordered the disposal of her own self by burning. At about 60 years, she ordered her brother-in-law to kill her, because she said she was becoming a windigo, and was afraid that she would eat people.2 Some bad Indian had done this to her. So she had the following orders executed: her brother-in-law was to put a rope around her neck, seat her and hit her once on the head with the blunt end of an axe (traditional mode of stunning bears and dogs). Then she would fall forward and be choked. Then they were to strip the tent of its belongings, and burn the tent with her. Her brother-in-law, not her husband, was to do this; if the latter did it she would not die.	spirit attack,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Mrs. John Cochran's mother ordered the disposal of her own self by burning. At about 60 years, she ordered her brother-in-law to kill her, because she said she was becoming a windigo, and was afraid that she would eat people.2 Some bad Indian had done this to her. So she had the following orders executed: her brother-in-law was to put a rope around her neck, seat her and hit her once on the head with the blunt end of an axe (traditional mode of stunning bears and dogs). Then she would fall forward and be choked. Then they were to strip the tent of its belongings, and burn the tent with her. Her brother-in-law, not her husband, was to do this; if the latter did it she would not die.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	ask_someone_else,strangling,blunt trauma	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	unknown	60	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	6	x	x	x	unknown	afraid	x	x	Then they were to strip the tent of its belongings, and burn the tent with her. Her brother-in-law, not her husband, was to do this; if the latter did it she would not die.	not stated	1	x	Then she would fall forward and be choked. Then they were to strip the tent of its belongings, and burn the tent with her. 	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
297	zgarfield	Case	Ojibwa	"Recalling a later epidemic, trader George Nelson wrote of survivors committing suicide in despair at being left alone and of healthy individuals helping sick relatives to die sooner. Nelson claimed that ""these acts of their despair, probably carried off more than the disease itself."""	Evidence for	x	unknown	Recalling a later epidemic, trader George Nelson wrote of survivors committing suicide in despair at being left alone and of healthy individuals helping sick relatives to die sooner. 	disease outbreak	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	other	x		x	x		unknown	despair	Recalling a later epidemic, trader George Nelson wrote of survivors committing suicide in despair at being left alone and of healthy individuals helping sick relatives to die sooner.	x	x	not stated	?	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
297	syme	Case	Ojibwa	"Recalling a later epidemic, trader George Nelson wrote of survivors committing suicide in despair at being left alone and of healthy individuals helping sick relatives to die sooner. Nelson claimed that ""these acts of their despair, probably carried off more than the disease itself."""	Evidence for	x	unknown	"Recalling a later epidemic, trader George Nelson wrote of survivors committing suicide in despair at being left alone and of healthy individuals helping sick relatives to die sooner. Nelson claimed that ""these acts of their despair, probably carried off more than the disease itself."""	death loved one,disease outbreak	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	kin	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	despair	despair	x	x	not stated	unknown,rate	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	secondhand
298	zgarfield	Cultural model	Ojibwa	"In 1781, William Tomison at York Factory noted, similarly, that ""many put an end to their own existence to end the pain, and others for grief at the loss of their families."""	Evidence for	x	unknown	"In 1781, William Tomison at York Factory noted, similarly, that ""many put an end to their own existence to end the pain, and others for grief at the loss of their families."""	disease outbreak	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	etic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	"end the pain, and others for grief at the loss of their families.""
"	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	severe	other	x		x	x		unknown	"end the pain, and others for grief at the loss of their families.""
"	"In 1781, William Tomison at York Factory noted, similarly, that ""many put an end to their own existence to end the pain, and others for grief at the loss of their families.""
"	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	end the pain, 	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		documented_account
298	syme	Cultural model	Ojibwa	"In 1781, William Tomison at York Factory noted, similarly, that ""many put an end to their own existence to end the pain, and others for grief at the loss of their families."""	Evidence for	x	unknown	"In 1781, William Tomison at York Factory noted, similarly, that ""many put an end to their own existence to end the pain, and others for grief at the loss of their families."""	death loved one,disease outbreak	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	"In 1781, William Tomison at York Factory noted, similarly, that ""many put an end to their own existence to end the pain, and others for grief at the loss of their families."""	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	kin	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	grief	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	na
300	zgarfield	Case	Ojibwa	in the incident that provoked Henry's comment, for instance, a woman committed suicide after being beaten by her fur-trade husband.	Evidence for	x	adult	in the incident that provoked Henry's comment, for instance, a woman committed suicide after being beaten by her fur-trade husband.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	in the incident that provoked Henry's comment, for instance, a woman committed suicide after being beaten by her fur-trade husband.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	male	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	physical abuse	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence against		firsthand
300	syme	Case	Ojibwa	in the incident that provoked Henry's comment, for instance, a woman committed suicide after being beaten by her fur-trade husband.	Evidence for	x	unknown	 in the incident that provoked Henry's comment, for instance, a woman committed suicide after being beaten by her fur-trade husband.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 in the incident that provoked Henry's comment, for instance, a woman committed suicide after being beaten by her fur-trade husband.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult,unknown	husband	male	na	Evidence for	female	x	Evidence for		physical abuse	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	documented_account
301	zgarfield	Cultural model	Ojibwa	women's suicides often signal acts of autonomy in a social and political context in which women are otherwise relatively powerless Counts emphasizes that, in kin-based societies, suicide is an active form of revenge, for it places blame for the death on the woman's husband's family and makes them [p.229] responsible to her blood kin for compensating her family for her death. Furthermore, she notes that female suicides in kin-based societies often follow physical abuse by a husband. Both these conditions may have been at work in causing Ojibwa women's suicides;	Evidence for	x	adult	women's suicides often signal acts of autonomy in a social and political context in which women are otherwise relatively powerless Counts emphasizes that, in kin-based societies, suicide is an active form of revenge, for it places blame for the death on the woman's husband's family and makes them [p.229] responsible to her blood kin for compensating her family for her death. Furthermore, she notes that female suicides in kin-based societies often follow physical abuse by a husband.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	women's suicides often signal acts of autonomy in a social and political context in which women are otherwise relatively powerless Counts emphasizes that, in kin-based societies, suicide is an active form of revenge, for it places blame for the death on the woman's husband's family and makes them [p.229] responsible to her blood kin for compensating her family for her death. Furthermore, she notes that female suicides in kin-based societies often follow physical abuse by a husband.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	suicide is an active form of revenge,	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	male	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	physical abuse	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	suicide is an active form of revenge,	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	it places blame for the death on the woman's husband's family and makes them [p.229] responsible to her blood kin for compensating her family for her death.	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence		na
301	syme	Cultural model	Ojibwa	women's suicides often signal acts of autonomy in a social and political context in which women are otherwise relatively powerless Counts emphasizes that, in kin-based societies, suicide is an active form of revenge, for it places blame for the death on the woman's husband's family and makes them [p.229] responsible to her blood kin for compensating her family for her death. Furthermore, she notes that female suicides in kin-based societies often follow physical abuse by a husband. Both these conditions may have been at work in causing Ojibwa women's suicides;	Evidence for	x	unknown	women's suicides often signal acts of autonomy in a social and political context in which women are otherwise relatively powerless Counts emphasizes that, in kin-based societies, suicide is an active form of revenge, for it places blame for the death on the woman's husband's family and makes them [p.229] responsible to her blood kin for compensating her family for her death. Furthermore, she notes that female suicides in kin-based societies often follow physical abuse by a husband. Both these conditions may have been at work in causing Ojibwa women's suicides;	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	women's suicides often signal acts of autonomy in a social and political context in which women are otherwise relatively powerless Counts emphasizes that, in kin-based societies, suicide is an active form of revenge, for it places blame for the death on the woman's husband's family and makes them [p.229] responsible to her blood kin for compensating her family for her death. Furthermore, she notes that female suicides in kin-based societies often follow physical abuse by a husband. Both these conditions may have been at work in causing Ojibwa women's suicides;	unknown	etic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	women's suicides often signal acts of autonomy in a social and political context in which women are otherwise relatively powerless Counts emphasizes that, in kin-based societies, suicide is an active form of revenge, for it places blame for the death on the woman's husband's family and makes them [p.229] responsible to her blood kin for compensating her family for her death. Furthermore, she notes that female suicides in kin-based societies often follow physical abuse by a husband. Both these conditions may have been at work in causing Ojibwa women's suicides;	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	affines	na	na	Evidence for	female	affines	Evidence for		physical abuse	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	 for it places blame for the death on the woman's husband's family and makes them [p.229] responsible to her blood kin for compensating her family for her death. Furthermore, she notes that female suicides in kin-based societies often follow physical abuse by a husband.	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence for	unknown	na
303	zgarfield	Case	Ojibwa	"A case of suicide (nissitise[dot]: ""he kills himself"" or ako[dot]nitiso, ""he hangs himself""), which occurred during the course of fieldwork, the only instance of a death aside from that of an infant, may help to clarify some of the above statements. The victim, a married man and not very old, hanged himself at his winter camp. When news of the event reached the village his close relatives, and others to a lesser extent, showed great emotion. For the first few days afterwards, the deceased's brother wandered about staring absently, never smiling, and shaking visibly. The man's mother was even more noticeably upset than his brother, even weeping slightly. The first night after learning of her son's death, she kept the whole household awake because of her distressed condition. No mention was made by any member of the family as to why the man had committed suicide. One informant said that when the dead man's brother was feeling better he would tell the people the cause of it. The man's name was not mentioned in conversation until some time after the death. Instead the man was always referred [p. b62] to as ""so and so's brother"" or as ""the man who hanged himself."" At first no explanation was given for the suicide. Soon it was suggested that the man had hanged himself because he was depressed. It was said by informants that the man had been in jail and that this was hard, and the food bad. The fact of having been in jail, it was implied, had preyed on his mind until he had killed himself.1 To bolster their argument, informants referred to another recent case of suicide. In this case the man had just returned from jail and had no job. He was threatened with jail again and as a result committed suicide. Whatever the truth of these assertions may be they do indicate on the part of the [unavailable]ound Lake Ojibwa their fear of jails, policemen, and Canadian law and their latent hostility toward the Euro-Canadian. About a month later a new interpretation was offered of the suicide. The informant who gave this was quite concerned over the death. He felt there might have been trouble (i.e. witchcraft).2 When the body was found it was suspended by only a small cord passing under the chin. It was not tied about the neck. The informant did not think that a cord fixed in this way could have caused death. It was added that right after the man hanged himself a hare approached the house where his widow was staying. The hare was not afraid and she killed it. It was very strange that the hare was not afraid. The informant could not adequately explain this, and it was of great concern to him. The informant also thought it strange that two of the surviving brothers had now separated. There must have been trouble somewhere. Perhaps, therefore, a ""bad man"" had killed him. Yet at the same time the informant knew of no enemies of this man, nor had any strange tracks been seen about the place. Nevertheless the informant's father had also suggested to him that it might have been the work of a mite-na[dot]pe[dot]. The informant simply did not know how it happened, and finally suggested that perhaps the man had gone out of his mind temporarily. The informant's brother had done this just before he died. His spirit (ahca[dot]hk) had left him and he was unconscious. The fear of witchcraft seems clear and is indicated in other cases of deaths reported. Witchcraft as an explanation is brought forward after the death has been fully discussed and all the strange events surrounding the event have had time to be remembered (and elaborated?), and told by all those in the vicinity. Then a case for witchcraft is usually established. The idea that witchcraft is the cause of death is further strengthened by the following statements about the same case of suicide. A different informant said that both he and his father-in-law had dreams the night after the community had been notified that a hanging had occurred. The man's father-in-law had a dream in which he was attacked by an animal but he was able to throw the animal into a snowbank and therefore the situation was not too bad. If he had not been able to cast the animal aside then it would have meant bad luck. The informant did not elaborate but merely said he had had a dream of premonition of the same type. He and his father-in-law discussed the matter. It was an evil ""cloud"" or ""substance"" that had followed the deceased man's brother back to the village from the south. Apparently the evil in this case had been unable to do further harm. There is another factor that enters into this case. It was implied rather than explicitly stated by a member of the family that the suicide was a form of [p. b63] punishment inflicted on the family.1 The man's mother had remarried without consulting her brothers and now they had all sorts of troubles, the suicide being merely one of many. Witchcraft, supernatural retribution, and fear and hostility towards Euro-Canadians become inextricable inter-woven in determining an explanation for this suicide."	No evidence	x	adult	Soon it was suggested that the man had hanged himself because he was depressed. It was said by informants that the man had been in jail and that this was hard, and the food bad. The fact of having been in jail, it was implied, had preyed on his mind until he had killed himself	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	depression	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	Soon it was suggested that the man had hanged himself because he was depressed. 	" When news of the event reached the village his close relatives, and others to a lesser extent, showed great emotion. For the first few days afterwards, the deceased's brother wandered about staring absently, never smiling, and shaking visibly. The man's mother was even more noticeably upset than his brother, even weeping slightly. The first night after learning of her son's death, she kept the whole household awake because of her distressed condition. No mention was made by any member of the family as to why the man had committed suicide. One informant said that when the dead man's brother was feeling better he would tell the people the cause of it. The man's name was not mentioned in conversation until some time after the death. Instead the man was always referred [p. b62] to as ""so and so's brother"" or as ""the man who hanged himself."" At first no explanation was given for the suicide. Soon it was suggested that the man had hanged himself because he was depressed. It was said by informants that the man had been in jail and that this was hard, and the food bad. The fact of having been in jail, it was implied, had preyed on his mind until he had killed himself.1 To bolster their argument, informants referred to another recent case of suicide. In this case the man had just returned from jail and had no job. He was threatened with jail again and as a result committed suicide"	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence against		firsthand
303	syme	Case	Ojibwa	"A case of suicide (nissitise[dot]: ""he kills himself"" or ako[dot]nitiso, ""he hangs himself""), which occurred during the course of fieldwork, the only instance of a death aside from that of an infant, may help to clarify some of the above statements. The victim, a married man and not very old, hanged himself at his winter camp. When news of the event reached the village his close relatives, and others to a lesser extent, showed great emotion. For the first few days afterwards, the deceased's brother wandered about staring absently, never smiling, and shaking visibly. The man's mother was even more noticeably upset than his brother, even weeping slightly. The first night after learning of her son's death, she kept the whole household awake because of her distressed condition. No mention was made by any member of the family as to why the man had committed suicide. One informant said that when the dead man's brother was feeling better he would tell the people the cause of it. The man's name was not mentioned in conversation until some time after the death. Instead the man was always referred [p. b62] to as ""so and so's brother"" or as ""the man who hanged himself."" At first no explanation was given for the suicide. Soon it was suggested that the man had hanged himself because he was depressed. It was said by informants that the man had been in jail and that this was hard, and the food bad. The fact of having been in jail, it was implied, had preyed on his mind until he had killed himself.1 To bolster their argument, informants referred to another recent case of suicide. In this case the man had just returned from jail and had no job. He was threatened with jail again and as a result committed suicide. Whatever the truth of these assertions may be they do indicate on the part of the [unavailable]ound Lake Ojibwa their fear of jails, policemen, and Canadian law and their latent hostility toward the Euro-Canadian. About a month later a new interpretation was offered of the suicide. The informant who gave this was quite concerned over the death. He felt there might have been trouble (i.e. witchcraft).2 When the body was found it was suspended by only a small cord passing under the chin. It was not tied about the neck. The informant did not think that a cord fixed in this way could have caused death. It was added that right after the man hanged himself a hare approached the house where his widow was staying. The hare was not afraid and she killed it. It was very strange that the hare was not afraid. The informant could not adequately explain this, and it was of great concern to him. The informant also thought it strange that two of the surviving brothers had now separated. There must have been trouble somewhere. Perhaps, therefore, a ""bad man"" had killed him. Yet at the same time the informant knew of no enemies of this man, nor had any strange tracks been seen about the place. Nevertheless the informant's father had also suggested to him that it might have been the work of a mite-na[dot]pe[dot]. The informant simply did not know how it happened, and finally suggested that perhaps the man had gone out of his mind temporarily. The informant's brother had done this just before he died. His spirit (ahca[dot]hk) had left him and he was unconscious. The fear of witchcraft seems clear and is indicated in other cases of deaths reported. Witchcraft as an explanation is brought forward after the death has been fully discussed and all the strange events surrounding the event have had time to be remembered (and elaborated?), and told by all those in the vicinity. Then a case for witchcraft is usually established. The idea that witchcraft is the cause of death is further strengthened by the following statements about the same case of suicide. A different informant said that both he and his father-in-law had dreams the night after the community had been notified that a hanging had occurred. The man's father-in-law had a dream in which he was attacked by an animal but he was able to throw the animal into a snowbank and therefore the situation was not too bad. If he had not been able to cast the animal aside then it would have meant bad luck. The informant did not elaborate but merely said he had had a dream of premonition of the same type. He and his father-in-law discussed the matter. It was an evil ""cloud"" or ""substance"" that had followed the deceased man's brother back to the village from the south. Apparently the evil in this case had been unable to do further harm. There is another factor that enters into this case. It was implied rather than explicitly stated by a member of the family that the suicide was a form of [p. b63] punishment inflicted on the family.1 The man's mother had remarried without consulting her brothers and now they had all sorts of troubles, the suicide being merely one of many. Witchcraft, supernatural retribution, and fear and hostility towards Euro-Canadians become inextricable inter-woven in determining an explanation for this suicide."	No evidence	x	adult	"Soon it was suggested that the man had hanged himself because he was depressed. It was said by informants that the man had been in jail and that this was hard, and the food bad. The fact of having been in jail, it was implied, had preyed on his mind until he had killed himself.1 To bolster their argument, informants referred to another recent case of suicide. In this case the man had just returned from jail and had no job. He was threatened with jail again and as a result committed suicide. Whatever the truth of these assertions may be they do indicate on the part of the [unavailable]ound Lake Ojibwa their fear of jails, policemen, and Canadian law and their latent hostility toward the Euro-Canadian. About a month later a new interpretation was offered of the suicide. The informant who gave this was quite concerned over the death. He felt there might have been trouble (i.e. witchcraft).2 When the body was found it was suspended by only a small cord passing under the chin. It was not tied about the neck. The informant did not think that a cord fixed in this way could have caused death. It was added that right after the man hanged himself a hare approached the house where his widow was staying. The hare was not afraid and she killed it. It was very strange that the hare was not afraid. The informant could not adequately explain this, and it was of great concern to him. The informant also thought it strange that two of the surviving brothers had now separated. There must have been trouble somewhere. Perhaps, therefore, a ""bad man"" had killed him. Yet at the same time the informant knew of no enemies of this man, nor had any strange tracks been seen about the place. Nevertheless the informant's father had also suggested to him that it might have been the work of a mite-na[dot]pe[dot]. The informant simply did not know how it happened, and finally suggested that perhaps the man had gone out of his mind temporarily. The informant's brother had done this just before he died. His spirit (ahca[dot]hk) had left him and he was unconscious. The fear of witchcraft seems clear and is indicated in other cases of deaths reported. Witchcraft as an explanation is brought forward after the death has been fully discussed and all the strange events surrounding the event have had time to be remembered (and elaborated?), and told by all those in the vicinity. Then a case for witchcraft is usually established. The idea that witchcraft is the cause of death is further strengthened by the following statements about the same case of suicide. A different informant said that both he and his father-in-law had dreams the night after the community had been notified that a hanging had occurred. The man's father-in-law had a dream in which he was attacked by an animal but he was able to throw the animal into a snowbank and therefore the situation was not too bad. If he had not been able to cast the animal aside then it would have meant bad luck. The informant did not elaborate but merely said he had had a dream of premonition of the same type. He and his father-in-law discussed the matter. It was an evil ""cloud"" or ""substance"" that had followed the deceased man's brother back to the village from the south. Apparently the evil in this case had been unable to do further harm. There is another factor that enters into this case. It was implied rather than explicitly stated by a member of the family that the suicide was a form of [p. b63] punishment inflicted on the family.1 The man's mother had remarried without consulting her brothers and now they had all sorts of troubles, the suicide being merely one of many. Witchcraft, supernatural retribution, and fear and hostility towards Euro-Canadians become inextricable inter-woven in determining an explanation for this suicide"	interpersonal confli,spirit attack,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 There is another factor that enters into this case. It was implied rather than explicitly stated by a member of the family that the suicide was a form of [p. b63] punishment inflicted on the family.1 The man's mother had remarried without consulting her brothers and now they had all sorts of troubles, the suicide being merely one of many. Witchcraft, supernatural retribution, and fear and hostility towards Euro-Canadians become inextricable inter-woven in determining an explanation for this suicide	unknown	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	depression	Evidence for	hanging	"Soon it was suggested that the man had hanged himself because he was depressed. It was said by informants that the man had been in jail and that this was hard, and the food bad. The fact of having been in jail, it was implied, had preyed on his mind until he had killed himself.1 To bolster their argument, informants referred to another recent case of suicide. In this case the man had just returned from jail and had no job. He was threatened with jail again and as a result committed suicide. Whatever the truth of these assertions may be they do indicate on the part of the [unavailable]ound Lake Ojibwa their fear of jails, policemen, and Canadian law and their latent hostility toward the Euro-Canadian. About a month later a new interpretation was offered of the suicide. The informant who gave this was quite concerned over the death. He felt there might have been trouble (i.e. witchcraft).2 When the body was found it was suspended by only a small cord passing under the chin. It was not tied about the neck. The informant did not think that a cord fixed in this way could have caused death. It was added that right after the man hanged himself a hare approached the house where his widow was staying. The hare was not afraid and she killed it. It was very strange that the hare was not afraid. The informant could not adequately explain this, and it was of great concern to him. The informant also thought it strange that two of the surviving brothers had now separated. There must have been trouble somewhere. Perhaps, therefore, a ""bad man"" had killed him. Yet at the same time the informant knew of no enemies of this man, nor had any strange tracks been seen about the place. Nevertheless the informant's father had also suggested to him that it might have been the work of a mite-na[dot]pe[dot]. The informant simply did not know how it happened, and finally suggested that perhaps the man had gone out of his mind temporarily. The informant's brother had done this just before he died. His spirit (ahca[dot]hk) had left him and he was unconscious. The fear of witchcraft seems clear and is indicated in other cases of deaths reported. Witchcraft as an explanation is brought forward after the death has been fully discussed and all the strange events surrounding the event have had time to be remembered (and elaborated?), and told by all those in the vicinity. Then a case for witchcraft is usually established. The idea that witchcraft is the cause of death is further strengthened by the following statements about the same case of suicide. A different informant said that both he and his father-in-law had dreams the night after the community had been notified that a hanging had occurred. The man's father-in-law had a dream in which he was attacked by an animal but he was able to throw the animal into a snowbank and therefore the situation was not too bad. If he had not been able to cast the animal aside then it would have meant bad luck. The informant did not elaborate but merely said he had had a dream of premonition of the same type. He and his father-in-law discussed the matter. It was an evil ""cloud"" or ""substance"" that had followed the deceased man's brother back to the village from the south. Apparently the evil in this case had been unable to do further harm. There is another factor that enters into this case. It was implied rather than explicitly stated by a member of the family that the suicide was a form of [p. b63] punishment inflicted on the family.1 The man's mother had remarried without consulting her brothers and now they had all sorts of troubles, the suicide being merely one of many. Witchcraft, supernatural retribution, and fear and hostility towards Euro-Canadians become inextricable inter-woven in determining an explanation for this suicide"	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult,elder,unknown	mother	female	na	Evidence for	male	kin	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	7	x	rumination	witchcraft	unknown	depressed	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	" A case of suicide (nissitise[dot]: ""he kills himself"" or ako[dot]nitiso, ""he hangs himself""), which occurred during the course of fieldwork, the only instance of a death aside from that of an infant, may help to clarify some of the above statements. The victim, a married man and not very old, hanged himself at his winter camp. When news of the event reached the village his close relatives, and others to a lesser extent, showed great emotion. For the first few days afterwards, the deceased's brother wandered about staring absently, never smiling, and shaking visibly. The man's mother was even more noticeably upset than his brother, even weeping slightly. The first night after learning of her son's death, she kept the whole household awake because of her distressed condition. No mention was made by any member of the family as to why the man had committed suicide. "	x	No evidence	private	no	No evidence	unknown	firsthand
305	zgarfield	Case	Ojibwa	Two Cat Lake men have recently killed themselves2 and two men at Pickle Lake. In the latter cases one man was a Round Lake Ojibwa and the other from farther north.	No evidence	x	adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	na	4	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		
305	syme	Case	Ojibwa	Two Cat Lake men have recently killed themselves2 and two men at Pickle Lake. In the latter cases one man was a Round Lake Ojibwa and the other from farther north.	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	1	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	4,rate	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
306	zgarfield	Case	Ojibwa	The only other case that could be recalled occurred fourteen to fifteen years ago north of Weagamow Lake. An old man, who was said to have been mentally unbalanced, hanged himself.	No evidence	x	elderly	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	unknown	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	"An old man, who was said to have been mentally unbalanced, hanged himself.
"	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		documented_account
306	syme	Case	Ojibwa	The only other case that could be recalled occurred fourteen to fifteen years ago north of Weagamow Lake. An old man, who was said to have been mentally unbalanced, hanged himself.	No evidence	x	elderly	The only other case that could be recalled occurred fourteen to fifteen years ago north of Weagamow Lake. An old man, who was said to have been mentally unbalanced, hanged himself.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	unknown	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	"""mentally unbalanced"""	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	secondhand
307	zgarfield	Cultural model	Ojibwa	Suicide is not common among the Round Lake Ojibwa and surrounding communities. The Round Lake Ojibwa do not consider it a normal form of behavior. Suicide appears to be a new development and probably reflects the tensions inherent in the contact situation.	No evidence	x	unknown	Suicide appears to be a new development and probably reflects the tensions inherent in the contact situation.	group conflict	No evidence	na	No evidence	Suicide appears to be a new development and probably reflects the tensions inherent in the contact situation.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	political power	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
307	syme	Cultural model	Ojibwa	Suicide is not common among the Round Lake Ojibwa and surrounding communities. The Round Lake Ojibwa do not consider it a normal form of behavior. Suicide appears to be a new development and probably reflects the tensions inherent in the contact situation.	No evidence	x	unknown	Suicide is not common among the Round Lake Ojibwa and surrounding communities. The Round Lake Ojibwa do not consider it a normal form of behavior. Suicide appears to be a new development and probably reflects the tensions inherent in the contact situation.	other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Suicide is not common among the Round Lake Ojibwa and surrounding communities. The Round Lake Ojibwa do not consider it a normal form of behavior. Suicide appears to be a new development and probably reflects the tensions inherent in the contact situation.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	outgroup	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	Evidence against		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
308	zgarfield	Cultural model	Ojibwa	Early in life the child learns a set of precepts which in many cases conflict with those inherent in Canadian society. The resolution of the conflicts later is often impossible and the attempt often produces a neurotic individual. This in turn has consequences for the next generation of children. In time a state of anomie is approached. The several cases of suicide which have occurred recently in the area suggest that this is what is happening today.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult	"Early in life the child learns a set of precepts which in many cases conflict with those inherent in Canadian society. The resolution of the conflicts later is often impossible and the attempt often produces a neurotic individual. This in turn has consequences for the next generation of children. In time a state of anomie is approached. The several cases of suicide which have occurred recently in the area suggest that this is what is happening today.
"	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	"Early in life the child learns a set of precepts which in many cases conflict with those inherent in Canadian society. The resolution of the conflicts later is often impossible and the attempt often produces a neurotic individual. This in turn has consequences for the next generation of children. In time a state of anomie is approached. The several cases of suicide which have occurred recently in the area suggest that this is what is happening today.
"	unknown	etic	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	other	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	other	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		Early in life the child learns a set of precepts which in many cases conflict with those inherent in Canadian society. The resolution of the conflicts later is often impossible and the attempt often produces a neurotic individual. 	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	neurotic	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		unknown
308	syme	Cultural model	Ojibwa	Early in life the child learns a set of precepts which in many cases conflict with those inherent in Canadian society. The resolution of the conflicts later is often impossible and the attempt often produces a neurotic individual. This in turn has consequences for the next generation of children. In time a state of anomie is approached. The several cases of suicide which have occurred recently in the area suggest that this is what is happening today.	No evidence	x	unknown	 Early in life the child learns a set of precepts which in many cases conflict with those inherent in Canadian society. The resolution of the conflicts later is often impossible and the attempt often produces a neurotic individual. This in turn has consequences for the next generation of children. In time a state of anomie is approached. The several cases of suicide which have occurred recently in the area suggest that this is what is happening today.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	etic	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	unknown	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	neurotic	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	low,unknown	na
309	zgarfield	Case	Ojibwa	One horrific example will serve to illustrate what I mean. A psychiatrist practising in Manitoba told me of a very traditional woman in a remote prairie community who looked out her window one day to see her son take a rope, throw it over a tree limb, and begin to tie a noose to hang himself. She called the police immediately, but did not go out to stop him. By the time they arrived, her son was dead. The police later asked Dr. Bruce Sealy (a man whom I will refer to again at the beginning of the next chapter) what they could have done differently. His advice was [p. 44] that they should have immediately ordered the woman, on the telephone, to go out and stop her son. This would have freed her from the grip of her traditional commandment, thus allowing her to do what she so desperately wanted to do. When we look at this woman's refusal to act in terms of its results, it was a tragic omission on her part. From our cultural standpoint, we condemn her passivity, seeing nothing but a wholesale absence of care and an almost criminal indifference. We characterize her as a value-empty person who ought to be heavily censured. From her cultural point of view, however, the opposite may well be the case. Although her people would no doubt abhor the results of her choice, they would not abhor her. They would not see an uncaring and amoral beast but a woman of such incredible allegiance to centuries-old commandments that she could watch her own son die before breaking them. Whether we agree or disagree with what she chose to do, we must remember that what she is constitutes a separate issue altogether. It is possible to respect her as a woman of immense strength and ethical fibre, for in her own culture that is precisely what she proved herself to be. Our response should not be one of condemnation but of sympathetic respect, even though the results of her allegiance were so tragic.	No evidence	x	unknown	x 	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	A psychiatrist practising in Manitoba told me of a very traditional woman in a remote prairie community who looked out her window one day to see her son take a rope, throw it over a tree limb, and begin to tie a noose to hang himself. She called the police immediately, but did not go out to stop him. By the time they arrived, her son was dead. The police later asked Dr. Bruce Sealy (a man whom I will refer to again at the beginning of the next chapter) what they could have done differently. His advice was [p. 44] that they should have immediately ordered the woman, on the telephone, to go out and stop her son.	x	No evidence	public	no	Evidence against		hearsay
309	syme	Case	Ojibwa	One horrific example will serve to illustrate what I mean. A psychiatrist practising in Manitoba told me of a very traditional woman in a remote prairie community who looked out her window one day to see her son take a rope, throw it over a tree limb, and begin to tie a noose to hang himself. She called the police immediately, but did not go out to stop him. By the time they arrived, her son was dead. The police later asked Dr. Bruce Sealy (a man whom I will refer to again at the beginning of the next chapter) what they could have done differently. His advice was [p. 44] that they should have immediately ordered the woman, on the telephone, to go out and stop her son. This would have freed her from the grip of her traditional commandment, thus allowing her to do what she so desperately wanted to do. When we look at this woman's refusal to act in terms of its results, it was a tragic omission on her part. From our cultural standpoint, we condemn her passivity, seeing nothing but a wholesale absence of care and an almost criminal indifference. We characterize her as a value-empty person who ought to be heavily censured. From her cultural point of view, however, the opposite may well be the case. Although her people would no doubt abhor the results of her choice, they would not abhor her. They would not see an uncaring and amoral beast but a woman of such incredible allegiance to centuries-old commandments that she could watch her own son die before breaking them. Whether we agree or disagree with what she chose to do, we must remember that what she is constitutes a separate issue altogether. It is possible to respect her as a woman of immense strength and ethical fibre, for in her own culture that is precisely what she proved herself to be. Our response should not be one of condemnation but of sympathetic respect, even though the results of her allegiance were so tragic.	No evidence	x	young adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	One horrific example will serve to illustrate what I mean. A psychiatrist practising in Manitoba told me of a very traditional woman in a remote prairie community who looked out her window one day to see her son take a rope, throw it over a tree limb, and begin to tie a noose to hang himself. She called the police immediately, but did not go out to stop him. By the time they arrived, her son was dead. The police later asked Dr. Bruce Sealy (a man whom I will refer to again at the beginning of the next chapter) what they could have done differently. His advice was [p. 44] that they should have immediately ordered the woman, on the telephone, to go out and stop her son. This would have freed her from the grip of her traditional commandment, thus allowing her to do what she so desperately wanted to do. When we look at this woman's refusal to act in terms of its results, it was a tragic omission on her part. From our cultural standpoint, we condemn her passivity, seeing nothing but a wholesale absence of care and an almost criminal indifference. We characterize her as a value-empty person who ought to be heavily censured. From her cultural point of view, however, the opposite may well be the case. Although her people would no doubt abhor the results of her choice, they would not abhor her. They would not see an uncaring and amoral beast but a woman of such incredible allegiance to centuries-old commandments that she could watch her own son die before breaking them. Whether we agree or disagree with what she chose to do, we must remember that what she is constitutes a separate issue altogether. It is possible to respect her as a woman of immense strength and ethical fibre, for in her own culture that is precisely what she proved herself to be. Our response should not be one of condemnation but of sympathetic respect, even though the results of her allegiance were so tragic.	x	No evidence	private	no	No evidence	unknown	documented_account
310	zgarfield	Cultural model	Ojibwa	One smaller reserve in my region provides some support for that hypothesis. For many years it was a place of terror, with alcohol abuse leading to extreme violence, including multiple suicides, on a regular basis.	No evidence	x	adult	For many years it was a place of terror, with alcohol abuse leading to extreme violence, including multiple suicides, on a regular basis.	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	For many years it was a place of terror, with alcohol abuse leading to extreme violence, including multiple suicides, on a regular basis.		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	no	No evidence		na
310	syme	Cultural model	Ojibwa	One smaller reserve in my region provides some support for that hypothesis. For many years it was a place of terror, with alcohol abuse leading to extreme violence, including multiple suicides, on a regular basis.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	substance abuse	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	alcohol abuse	x	x	x	drunk at time	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	acohol abuse	x	c	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	low,unknown	na
311	zgarfield	Cultural model	Ojibwa	In desperation over their powerlessness to change things, some children decide that death is better than life. And they kill themselves. Alcohol, sex, and a desire for death form a typical response by children to soul-searing neglect.	Evidence for	x	child	 In desperation over their powerlessness to change things, some children decide that death is better than life. And they kill themselves.	interpersonal confli	Evidence for	other	Evidence for	 In desperation over their powerlessness to change things, some children decide that death is better than life. And they kill themselves.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	n desperation over their powerlessness to change things, some children decide that death is better than life. And they kill themselves. 	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	"lcohol, sex, and a desire for death form a typical response by children to soul-searing neglect.
"		x	x		no	desperation, powerlessness	n desperation over their powerlessness to change things, some children decide that death is better than life. And they kill themselves. 	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	na	unknown	No evidence		na
311	syme	Cultural model	Ojibwa	In desperation over their powerlessness to change things, some children decide that death is better than life. And they kill themselves. Alcohol, sex, and a desire for death form a typical response by children to soul-searing neglect.	No evidence	x	child	 In desperation over their powerlessness to change things, some children decide that death is better than life. And they kill themselves. Alcohol, sex, and a desire for death form a typical response by children to soul-searing neglect.	interpersonal confli,other	Evidence for	neglect	Evidence for	 In desperation over their powerlessness to change things, some children decide that death is better than life. And they kill themselves. Alcohol, sex, and a desire for death form a typical response by children to soul-searing neglect.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	na	 In desperation over their powerlessness to change things, some children decide that death is better than life. And they kill themselves. Alcohol, sex, and a desire for death form a typical response by children to soul-searing neglect.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	caregiver	unknown	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	ideation	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	neglect	x	"assoc. ""inappropriate"" sex, assoc. alcoholism"	unknown	soul-searing neglect	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	na
312	zgarfield	Case	Ojibwa	"Alcohol, sex, and a desire for death form a typical response by children to soul-searing neglect. One of the teachers provides an example of the syndrome: Stewart is ten years old. One night he was being beaten up by other kids because he had stolen a 40-oz bottle of rye and had drunk it all by himself. We took him home and stayed with him all night because he was close to alcohol poisoning. He thrashed about in a wild frenzy and kept screaming that he needed ""to have a fuck!"" As he began to sober up in the morning, he said he wanted to die. He was serious and calm and determined to kill himself. At seven that morning, his mother burned her house down. She had been drinking all night too. She lit a fire in the bedroom and one in the kitchen and then went outside and watched the house burn to the ground. Here we were. We had Stewart wanting to die and watching his house go up in flames. The worst part was that in her stupor, his mother suddenly remembered that maybe one of her other children was still inside the burning house. It was a nightmare to watch the police go through the burning ashes looking for a body."	No evidence	x	child	" Stewart is ten years old. One night he was being beaten up by other kids because he had stolen a 40-oz bottle of rye and had drunk it all by himself. We took him home and stayed with him all night because he was close to alcohol poisoning. He thrashed about in a wild frenzy and kept screaming that he needed ""to have a fuck!"" As he began to sober up in the morning, he said he wanted to die. He was serious and calm and determined to kill himself."	interpersonal confli	Evidence for	other	Evidence for	 Stewart is ten years old. One night he was being beaten up by other kids because he had stolen a 40-oz bottle of rye and had drunk it all by himself. 	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	child,ado_young_adult	social partners	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	physical abuse	ideation	10	Evidence for	na	unknown	One night he was being beaten up by other kids because he had stolen a 40-oz bottle of rye and had drunk it all by himself.	6	x	x		no	As he began to sober up in the morning, he said he wanted to die	x	x	x	not stated	1	As he began to sober up in the morning, he said he wanted to die. He was serious and calm and determined to kill himself	As he began to sober up in the morning, he said he wanted to die. He was serious and calm and determined to kill himself. At seven that morning, his mother burned her house down. She had been drinking all night too. She lit a fire in the bedroom and one in the kitchen and then went outside and watched the house burn to the ground. Here we were. We had Stewart wanting to die and watching his house go up in flames. 	x	No evidence	public	no	Evidence against		firsthand
312	syme	Case	Ojibwa	"Alcohol, sex, and a desire for death form a typical response by children to soul-searing neglect. One of the teachers provides an example of the syndrome: Stewart is ten years old. One night he was being beaten up by other kids because he had stolen a 40-oz bottle of rye and had drunk it all by himself. We took him home and stayed with him all night because he was close to alcohol poisoning. He thrashed about in a wild frenzy and kept screaming that he needed ""to have a fuck!"" As he began to sober up in the morning, he said he wanted to die. He was serious and calm and determined to kill himself. At seven that morning, his mother burned her house down. She had been drinking all night too. She lit a fire in the bedroom and one in the kitchen and then went outside and watched the house burn to the ground. Here we were. We had Stewart wanting to die and watching his house go up in flames. The worst part was that in her stupor, his mother suddenly remembered that maybe one of her other children was still inside the burning house. It was a nightmare to watch the police go through the burning ashes looking for a body."	No evidence	x	child	"Alcohol, sex, and a desire for death form a typical response by children to soul-searing neglect. One of the teachers provides an example of the syndrome: Stewart is ten years old. One night he was being beaten up by other kids because he had stolen a 40-oz bottle of rye and had drunk it all by himself. We took him home and stayed with him all night because he was close to alcohol poisoning. He thrashed about in a wild frenzy and kept screaming that he needed ""to have a fuck!"" As he began to sober up in the morning, he said he wanted to die. He was serious and calm and determined to kill himself. At seven that morning, his mother burned her house down. She had been drinking all night too. She lit a fire in the bedroom and one in the kitchen and then went outside and watched the house burn to the ground. Here we were. We had Stewart wanting to die and watching his house go up in flames. The worst part was that in her stupor, his mother suddenly remembered that maybe one of her other children was still inside the burning house. It was a nightmare to watch the police go through the burning ashes looking for a body"	other,unknown	Evidence for	neglect	Evidence for	"Alcohol, sex, and a desire for death form a typical response by children to soul-searing neglect. One of the teachers provides an example of the syndrome: Stewart is ten years old. One night he was being beaten up by other kids because he had stolen a 40-oz bottle of rye and had drunk it all by himself. We took him home and stayed with him all night because he was close to alcohol poisoning. He thrashed about in a wild frenzy and kept screaming that he needed ""to have a fuck!"" As he began to sober up in the morning, he said he wanted to die. He was serious and calm and determined to kill himself. At seven that morning, his mother burned her house down. She had been drinking all night too. She lit a fire in the bedroom and one in the kitchen and then went outside and watched the house burn to the ground. Here we were. We had Stewart wanting to die and watching his house go up in flames. The worst part was that in her stupor, his mother suddenly remembered that maybe one of her other children was still inside the burning house. It was a nightmare to watch the police go through the burning ashes looking for a body"	unknown	na	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	mother	substance abuse	substance abuse	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	adult	mother	female	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence for		no evidence	threat,ideation	10	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	drinking	4	x	As he began to sober up in the morning, he said he wanted to die. He was serious and calm and determined to kill himself.	drunk at time	no	Alcohol, sex, and a desire for death form a typical response by children to soul-searing neglect. We took him home and stayed with him all night because he was close to alcohol poisoning. 	x	x	x	not stated	1	alcohol abuse	x	x	Evidence for	public	no	Evidence for	low,unknown	firsthand
314	zgarfield	Cultural model	Ojibwa	The gang rapes. a group of men will sometimes conspire to ask a young girl to a drinking party. They will give her drink until she passes out. They they will each have sex with her. If the girl is not quite passed out, the experience can be very bad for her, especially if her father is involved in the gang rape. There have been cases where the girl tries to commit suicide after that experience.	Evidence for	x	young adult	" They they will each have sex with her. If the girl is not quite passed out, the experience can be very bad for her, especially if her father is involved in the gang rape. There have been cases where the girl tries to commit suicide after that experience.
"	interpersonal confli	Evidence for	sexual abuse	Evidence for	" They they will each have sex with her. If the girl is not quite passed out, the experience can be very bad for her, especially if her father is involved in the gang rape. There have been cases where the girl tries to commit suicide after that experience.
"	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	unknown	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	multiple social doma	male	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	sexual abuse	attempt	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	a group of men will sometimes conspire to ask a young girl to a drinking party. They will give her drink until she passes out. 		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		unknown
314	syme	Cultural model	Ojibwa	The gang rapes. a group of men will sometimes conspire to ask a young girl to a drinking party. They will give her drink until she passes out. They they will each have sex with her. If the girl is not quite passed out, the experience can be very bad for her, especially if her father is involved in the gang rape. There have been cases where the girl tries to commit suicide after that experience.	Evidence for	x	young adult	The gang rapes. a group of men will sometimes conspire to ask a young girl to a drinking party. They will give her drink until she passes out. They they will each have sex with her. If the girl is not quite passed out, the experience can be very bad for her, especially if her father is involved in the gang rape. There have been cases where the girl tries to commit suicide after that experience.	other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The gang rapes. a group of men will sometimes conspire to ask a young girl to a drinking party. They will give her drink until she passes out. They they will each have sex with her. If the girl is not quite passed out, the experience can be very bad for her, especially if her father is involved in the gang rape. There have been cases where the girl tries to commit suicide after that experience.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	father,others	male	na	Evidence for	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x		unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
315	zgarfield	Case	Ojibwa	Two of these ten deaths were suicides. These recent statistics suggest that the pressures that initially led the Grassy Narrows people to embrace alcohol have not been relieved. It also appears that these pressures have been neither understood by the Canadian society at large nor seriously addressed by those who have a trust responsibility for the survival of indigenous people.	No evidence	x	young adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x	1	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated		x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
315	syme	Case	Ojibwa	Two of these ten deaths were suicides. These recent statistics suggest that the pressures that initially led the Grassy Narrows people to embrace alcohol have not been relieved. It also appears that these pressures have been neither understood by the Canadian society at large nor seriously addressed by those who have a trust responsibility for the survival of indigenous people.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,unknown	Two of these ten deaths were suicides. These recent statistics suggest that the pressures that initially led the Grassy Narrows people to embrace alcohol have not been relieved. It also appears that these pressures have been neither understood by the Canadian society at large nor seriously addressed by those who have a trust responsibility for the survival of indigenous people.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	1	x	x	assoc. alcoholism	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	2, rate	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
317	zgarfield	Case	Ojibwa	"According to his granddaughter and others, George Traverse (d. 1914) committed suicide by hanging while in prison, after refusing to become a Christian through baptism. Peter Traverse (d. 1955), a son, is reported to have put George's Mide paraphernalia in a ""quiet place"	No evidence	x	unknown	According to his granddaughter and others, George Traverse (d. 1914) committed suicide by hanging while in prison, after refusing to become a Christian through baptism	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	According to his granddaughter and others, George Traverse (d. 1914) committed suicide by hanging while in prison, after refusing to become a Christian through baptism	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		yes	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence		hearsay
317	syme	Case	Ojibwa	"According to his granddaughter and others, George Traverse (d. 1914) committed suicide by hanging while in prison, after refusing to become a Christian through baptism. Peter Traverse (d. 1955), a son, is reported to have put George's Mide paraphernalia in a ""quiet place"	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	" According to his granddaughter and others, George Traverse (d. 1914) committed suicide by hanging while in prison, after refusing to become a Christian through baptism. Peter Traverse (d. 1955), a son, is reported to have put George's Mide paraphernalia in a ""quiet place"	other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	" According to his granddaughter and others, George Traverse (d. 1914) committed suicide by hanging while in prison, after refusing to become a Christian through baptism. Peter Traverse (d. 1955), a son, is reported to have put George's Mide paraphernalia in a ""quiet place"	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	outgroup	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence against		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	"put in a ""quiet place"""	not stated	1	x	"Peter Traverse (d. 1955), a son, is reported to have put George's Mide paraphernalia in a ""quiet place"	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	low,unknown	secondhand
318	zgarfield	Case	Ojibwa	In the ensuing fall, when I was something more than twenty-one years of age, I moved, with Wa-me-gon-a-biew, and many other families of Indians, to the Wild Rice. While we were engaged in collecting and preparing the grain, many among us were seized with a violent sickness. It commenced with cough and hoarseness, and sometimes bleeding from the mouth or nose. In a short time many died, and none were able to hunt. Although I did not escape entirely, my attack appeared at first less violent than that of most others. There had been for several days no meat in the encampment. Some of the children had not been sick, and some of those who had been sick, now began to recover, and needed some food. There was but one man beside myself as capable of exertion as I was, and he, like myself, was recovering. We were wholly unable to walk, and could scarce mount our horses when they were brought to us by the children. Had we been able to walk, we coughed so loudly and so incessantly that we could never have approached near enough to any game to kill it by still hunting. In this emergency we rode into the plains, and were fortunate enough to overtake and kill a bear. Of the flesh of this animal we could not eat a mouthful, but we took it home and distributed to every lodge an equal portion. Still I continued to get better, and was among the first to regain my health, as I supposed. In a few days I went out to hunt elk, and in killing two of them in the space of two or three hours, I became somewhat excited and fatigued. I cut up the meat, and as is usual, took home a load on my back when I returned. I ate heartily of some which they cooked for me, then lay down and slept, but before the middle of the night, I was waked by a dreadful pain in my ears. It appeared to me that something was eating into my ears, and I called Wa-me-gon-a-biew to look, but he could see nothing. The pain became more and more excruciating for two days, at the end of which time I became insensible. When my consciousness returned, which was, as I learned afterwards, at the end of two days, I found myself sitting outside [p. 96] the lodge. I saw the Indians on all sides of me drinking, some trader having come among them. Some were quarrelling, particularly a group amongst which I distinguished Wa-me-gon-a-biew, and saw him stab a horse with his knife. Then I immediately became insensible and remained so probably for some days, as I was unconscious of every thing that passed until the band were nearly ready to move from the place where we had been living. My strength was not entirely gone, and when I came to my right mind, I could walk about. I reflected much on all that had passed since I had been among the Indians. I had in the main been contented since residing in the family of Net-no-kwa, but this sickness I looked upon as the commencement of misfortune which was to follow me through life. My hearing was gone for abscesses had formed and discharged in each ear, and I could now hear but very imperfectly. I sat down in the lodge, and could see the faces of men, and their lips moving, but knew not what they said. I took my gun and went to hunt, but the animals discovered me before I could see them, and if by accident I saw a moose or an elk, and endeavoured to get near him, I found that my cunning and my success had deserted me. I soon imagined that the very animals knew that I had become like an old and useless man. Under the influence of these painful feelings, I resolved to destroy myself, as the only means of escaping the certain misery which I saw before me. When they were ready to move, Net-no-kwa had my horse brought to the door of the lodge, and asked me if I was able to get on and ride to the place where they intended to encamp. I told her I was, and requesting that my gun might be left with me, said I would follow the party at a little distance. I took the rein of my horse's bridle in my hand, and sitting down, watched the people as group after group passed me and disappeared. When the last old woman, and her heavy load of pukkwi mats, sunk behind the little swell of the prairie that bounded my prospect, I felt much relieved. I cast loose the reins of the bridle, and suffered my horse to feed at large. I then cocked my gun, and resting the butt of it on the ground, [p. 97] I put the muzzle to my throat, and proceeded with the ramrod, which I had drawn for the purpose, to discharge it. I knew that the lock was in good order; also, that the piece had been well loaded but a day or two before; but I now found that the charge had been drawn. My powder horn and ball pouch always contained more or less ammunition, but on examination, I found them empty. My knife also, which I commonly carried appended to the strap of my shot pouch, was gone. Finding myself baffled in the attempt to take my own life, I seized my gun with both hands by the muzzle, and threw it from me with my utmost strength, then mounted my horse, who, contrary to his usual custom, and to what I had expected from him, had remained near me after being released. I soon overtook the party, for being probably aware of my intentions, Wa-me-gon-a-biew and Net-no-kwa had gone but far enough to conceal themselves from my view, and had then sat down to wait. It is probable that in my insane ravings, I had talked of my intention to destroy myself, and on this account they had been careful to deprive me of the most ordinary and direct means of effecting my purpose.	Evidence for	x	adult	 It appeared to me that something was eating into my ears, and I called Wa-me-gon-a-biew to look, but he could see nothing. The pain became more and more excruciating for two days, at the end of which time I became insensible. When my consciousness returned, which was, as I learned afterwards, at the end of two days, I found myself sitting outside [p. 96] the lodge.Then I immediately became insensible and remained so probably for some days, as I was unconscious of every thing that passed until the band were nearly ready to move from the place where we had been living. My strength was not entirely gone, and when I came to my right mind, I could walk about.I had in the main been contented since residing in the family of Net-no-kwa, but this sickness I looked upon as the commencement of misfortune which was to follow me through life. My hearing was gone for abscesses had formed and discharged in each ear, and I could now hear but very imperfectly. I sat down in the lodge, and could see the faces of men, and their lips moving, but knew not what they said. I took my gun and went to hunt, but the animals discovered me before I could see them, and if by accident I saw a moose or an elk, and endeavoured to get near him, I found that my cunning and my success had deserted me. I soon imagined that the very animals knew that I had become like an old and useless man. Under the influence of these painful feelings, I resolved to destroy myself, as the only means of escaping the certain misery which I saw before me. 	disease outbreak	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	shooting	Under the influence of these painful feelings, I resolved to destroy myself, as the only means of escaping the certain misery which I saw before me. 	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	plan	x	No evidence	severe	other	x	7	x	x		unknown	insensible, misery 	Under the influence of these painful feelings, I resolved to destroy myself, as the only means of escaping the certain misery which I saw before me. 	x	x	not stated	1	I took my gun and went to hunt, but the animals discovered me before I could see them, and if by accident I saw a moose or an elk, and endeavoured to get near him, I found that my cunning and my success had deserted me. I soon imagined that the very animals knew that I had become like an old and useless man...insane ravings,	"I had talked of my intention to destroy myself, and on this account they had been careful to deprive me of the most ordinary and direct means of effecting my purpose.
"	unconscious, dreadful pain in my ears, sickness	No evidence	public	no	Evidence against		first person
318	syme	Case	Ojibwa	In the ensuing fall, when I was something more than twenty-one years of age, I moved, with Wa-me-gon-a-biew, and many other families of Indians, to the Wild Rice. While we were engaged in collecting and preparing the grain, many among us were seized with a violent sickness. It commenced with cough and hoarseness, and sometimes bleeding from the mouth or nose. In a short time many died, and none were able to hunt. Although I did not escape entirely, my attack appeared at first less violent than that of most others. There had been for several days no meat in the encampment. Some of the children had not been sick, and some of those who had been sick, now began to recover, and needed some food. There was but one man beside myself as capable of exertion as I was, and he, like myself, was recovering. We were wholly unable to walk, and could scarce mount our horses when they were brought to us by the children. Had we been able to walk, we coughed so loudly and so incessantly that we could never have approached near enough to any game to kill it by still hunting. In this emergency we rode into the plains, and were fortunate enough to overtake and kill a bear. Of the flesh of this animal we could not eat a mouthful, but we took it home and distributed to every lodge an equal portion. Still I continued to get better, and was among the first to regain my health, as I supposed. In a few days I went out to hunt elk, and in killing two of them in the space of two or three hours, I became somewhat excited and fatigued. I cut up the meat, and as is usual, took home a load on my back when I returned. I ate heartily of some which they cooked for me, then lay down and slept, but before the middle of the night, I was waked by a dreadful pain in my ears. It appeared to me that something was eating into my ears, and I called Wa-me-gon-a-biew to look, but he could see nothing. The pain became more and more excruciating for two days, at the end of which time I became insensible. When my consciousness returned, which was, as I learned afterwards, at the end of two days, I found myself sitting outside [p. 96] the lodge. I saw the Indians on all sides of me drinking, some trader having come among them. Some were quarrelling, particularly a group amongst which I distinguished Wa-me-gon-a-biew, and saw him stab a horse with his knife. Then I immediately became insensible and remained so probably for some days, as I was unconscious of every thing that passed until the band were nearly ready to move from the place where we had been living. My strength was not entirely gone, and when I came to my right mind, I could walk about. I reflected much on all that had passed since I had been among the Indians. I had in the main been contented since residing in the family of Net-no-kwa, but this sickness I looked upon as the commencement of misfortune which was to follow me through life. My hearing was gone for abscesses had formed and discharged in each ear, and I could now hear but very imperfectly. I sat down in the lodge, and could see the faces of men, and their lips moving, but knew not what they said. I took my gun and went to hunt, but the animals discovered me before I could see them, and if by accident I saw a moose or an elk, and endeavoured to get near him, I found that my cunning and my success had deserted me. I soon imagined that the very animals knew that I had become like an old and useless man. Under the influence of these painful feelings, I resolved to destroy myself, as the only means of escaping the certain misery which I saw before me. When they were ready to move, Net-no-kwa had my horse brought to the door of the lodge, and asked me if I was able to get on and ride to the place where they intended to encamp. I told her I was, and requesting that my gun might be left with me, said I would follow the party at a little distance. I took the rein of my horse's bridle in my hand, and sitting down, watched the people as group after group passed me and disappeared. When the last old woman, and her heavy load of pukkwi mats, sunk behind the little swell of the prairie that bounded my prospect, I felt much relieved. I cast loose the reins of the bridle, and suffered my horse to feed at large. I then cocked my gun, and resting the butt of it on the ground, [p. 97] I put the muzzle to my throat, and proceeded with the ramrod, which I had drawn for the purpose, to discharge it. I knew that the lock was in good order; also, that the piece had been well loaded but a day or two before; but I now found that the charge had been drawn. My powder horn and ball pouch always contained more or less ammunition, but on examination, I found them empty. My knife also, which I commonly carried appended to the strap of my shot pouch, was gone. Finding myself baffled in the attempt to take my own life, I seized my gun with both hands by the muzzle, and threw it from me with my utmost strength, then mounted my horse, who, contrary to his usual custom, and to what I had expected from him, had remained near me after being released. I soon overtook the party, for being probably aware of my intentions, Wa-me-gon-a-biew and Net-no-kwa had gone but far enough to conceal themselves from my view, and had then sat down to wait. It is probable that in my insane ravings, I had talked of my intention to destroy myself, and on this account they had been careful to deprive me of the most ordinary and direct means of effecting my purpose.	Evidence for	x	adult	"In the ensuing fall, when I was something more than twenty-one years of age, I moved, with Wa-me-gon-a-biew, and many other families of Indians, to the Wild Rice. While we were engaged in collecting and preparing the grain, many among us were seized with a violent sickness. It commenced with cough and hoarseness, and sometimes bleeding from the mouth or nose. In a short time many died, and none were able to hunt. Although I did not escape entirely, my attack appeared at first less violent than that of most others. There had been for several days no meat in the encampment. Some of the children had not been sick, and some of those who had been sick, now began to recover, and needed some food. There was but one man beside myself as capable of exertion as I was, and he, like myself, was recovering. We were wholly unable to walk, and could scarce mount our horses when they were brought to us by the children. Had we been able to walk, we coughed so loudly and so incessantly that we could never have approached near enough to any game to kill it by still hunting. In this emergency we rode into the plains, and were fortunate enough to overtake and kill a bear. Of the flesh of this animal we could not eat a mouthful, but we took it home and distributed to every lodge an equal portion. Still I continued to get better, and was among the first to regain my health, as I supposed. In a few days I went out to hunt elk, and in killing two of them in the space of two or three hours, I became somewhat excited and fatigued. I cut up the meat, and as is usual, took home a load on my back when I returned. I ate heartily of some which they cooked for me, then lay down and slept, but before the middle of the night, I was waked by a dreadful pain in my ears. It appeared to me that something was eating into my ears, and I called Wa-me-gon-a-biew to look, but he could see nothing. The pain became more and more excruciating for two days, at the end of which time I became insensible. When my consciousness returned, which was, as I learned afterwards, at the end of two days, I found myself sitting outside [p. 96] the lodge. I saw the Indians on all sides of me drinking, some trader having come among them. Some were quarrelling, particularly a group amongst which I distinguished Wa-me-gon-a-biew, and saw him stab a horse with his knife. Then I immediately became insensible and remained so probably for some days, as I was unconscious of every thing that passed until the band were nearly ready to move from the place where we had been living. My strength was not entirely gone, and when I came to my right mind, I could walk about. I reflected much on all that had passed since I had been among the Indians. I had in the main been contented since residing in the family of Net-no-kwa, but this sickness I looked upon as the commencement of misfortune which was to follow me through life. My hearing was gone for abscesses had formed and discharged in each ear, and I could now hear but very imperfectly. I sat down in the lodge, and could see the faces of men, and their lips moving, but knew not what they said. I took my gun and went to hunt, but the animals discovered me before I could see them, and if by accident I saw a moose or an elk, and endeavoured to get near him, I found that my cunning and my success had deserted me. I soon imagined that the very animals knew that I had become like an old and useless man. Under the influence of these painful feelings, I resolved to destroy myself, as the only means of escaping the certain misery which I saw before me. When they were ready to move, Net-no-kwa had my horse brought to the door of the lodge, and asked me if I was able to get on and ride to the place where they intended to encamp. I told her I was, and requesting that my gun might be left with me, said I would follow the party at a little distance. I took the rein of my horse's bridle in my hand, and sitting down, watched the people as group after group passed me and disappeared. When the last old woman, and her heavy load of pukkwi mats, sunk behind the little swell of the prairie that bounded my prospect, I felt much relieved. I cast loose the reins of the bridle, and suffered my horse to feed at large. I then cocked my gun, and resting the butt of it on the ground, [p. 97] I put the muzzle to my throat, and proceeded with the ramrod, which I had drawn for the purpose, to discharge it. I knew that the lock was in good order; also, that the piece had been well loaded but a day or two before; but I now found that the charge had been drawn. My powder horn and ball pouch always contained more or less ammunition, but on examination, I found them empty. My knife also, which I commonly carried appended to the strap of my shot pouch, was gone. Finding myself baffled in the attempt to take my own life, I seized my gun with both hands by the muzzle, and threw it from me with my utmost strength, then mounted my horse, who, contrary to his usual custom, and to what I had expected from him, had remained near me after being released. I soon overtook the party, for being probably aware of my intentions, Wa-me-gon-a-biew and Net-no-kwa had gone but far enough to conceal themselves from my view, and had then sat down to wait. It is probable that in my insane ravings, I had talked of my intention to destroy myself, and on this account they had been careful to deprive me of the most ordinary and direct means of effecting my purpose.
"	disease outbreak,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly,unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	shooting	Under the influence of these painful feelings, I resolved to destroy myself, as the only means of escaping the certain misery which I saw before me.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	threat,plan,ideation	x	No evidence	moderate,severe,acute	other,unknown	I told her I was, and requesting that my gun might be left with me, said I would follow the party at a little distance. I took the rein of my horse's bridle in my hand, and sitting down, watched the people as group after group passed me and disappeared. When the last old woman, and her heavy load of pukkwi mats, sunk behind the little swell of the prairie that bounded my prospect, I felt much relieved. I cast loose the reins of the bridle, and suffered my horse to feed at large. I then cocked my gun, and resting the butt of it on the ground, [p. 97] I put the muzzle to my throat, and proceeded with the ramrod, which I had drawn for the purpose, to discharge it. I knew that the lock was in good order; also, that the piece had been well loaded but a day or two before; but I now found that the charge had been drawn. My powder horn and ball pouch always contained more or less ammunition, but on examination, I found them empty.	8	x	I took my gun and went to hunt, but the animals discovered me before I could see them, and if by accident I saw a moose or an elk, and endeavoured to get near him, I found that my cunning and my success had deserted me. I soon imagined that the very animals knew that I had become like an old and useless man. Under the influence of these painful feelings, I resolved to destroy myself, as the only means of escaping the certain misery which I saw before me. When they were ready to move, Net-no-kwa had my horse brought to the door of the lodge, and asked me if I was able to get on and ride to the place where they intended to encamp. 	x	unknown	Under the influence of these painful feelings, I resolved to destroy myself, as the only means of escaping the certain misery which I saw before me.	Under the influence of these painful feelings, I resolved to destroy myself, as the only means of escaping the certain misery which I saw before me.	x	x	not stated	1	x	companions took his weapons	There was but one man beside myself as capable of exertion as I was, and he, like myself, was recovering. We were wholly unable to walk, and could scarce mount our horses when they were brought to us by the children. Had we been able to walk, we coughed so loudly and so incessantly that we could never have approached near enough to any game to kill it by still hunting. In this emergency we rode into the plains, and were fortunate enough to overtake and kill a bear. Of the flesh of this animal we could not eat a mouthful, but we took it home and distributed to every lodge an equal portion. Still I continued to get better, and was among the first to regain my health, as I supposed. In a few days I went out to hunt elk, and in killing two of them in the space of two or three hours, I became somewhat excited and fatigued. I cut up the meat, and as is usual, took home a load on my back when I returned. I ate heartily of some which they cooked for me, then lay down and slept, but before the middle of the night, I was waked by a dreadful pain in my ears. It appeared to me that something was eating into my ears, and I called Wa-me-gon-a-biew to look, but he could see nothing. The pain became more and more excruciating for two days, at the end of which time I became insensible. When my consciousness returned, which was, as I learned afterwards, at the end of two days, I found myself sitting outside [p. 96] the lodge. I saw the Indians on all sides of me drinking, some trader having come among them. Some were quarrelling, particularly a group amongst which I distinguished Wa-me-gon-a-biew, and saw him stab a horse with his knife. Then I immediately became insensible and remained so probably for some days, as I was unconscious of every thing that passed until the band were nearly ready to move from the place where we had been living. My strength was not entirely gone, and when I came to my right mind, I could walk about. I reflected much on all that had passed since I had been among the Indians. I had in the main been contented since residing in the family of Net-no-kwa, but this sickness I looked upon as the commencement of misfortune which was to follow me through life. My hearing was gone for abscesses had formed and discharged in each ear, and I could now hear but very imperfectly. I sat down in the lodge, and could see the faces of men, and their lips moving, but knew not what they said. I took my gun and went to hunt, but the animals discovered me before I could see them, and if by accident I saw a moose or an elk, and endeavoured to get near him, I found that my cunning and my success had deserted me. I soon imagined that the very animals knew that I had become like an old and useless man. Under the influence of these painful feelings, I resolved to destroy myself, as the only means of escaping the certain misery which I saw before me. When they were ready to move, Net-no-kwa had my horse brought to the door of the lodge, and asked me if I was able to get on and ride to the place where they intended to encamp. I told her I was, and requesting that my gun might be left with me, said I would follow the party at a little distance. I took the rein of my horse's bridle in my hand, and sitting down, watched the people as group after group passed me and disappeared. When the last old woman, and her heavy load of pukkwi mats, sunk behind the little swell of the prairie that bounded my prospect, I felt much relieved. I cast loose the reins of the bridle, and suffered my horse to feed at large. I then cocked my gun, and resting the butt of it on the ground, [p. 97] I put the muzzle to my throat, and proceeded with the ramrod, which I had drawn for the purpose, to discharge it. I knew that the lock was in good order; also, that the piece had been well loaded but a day or two before; but I now found that the charge had been drawn. My powder horn and ball pouch always contained more or less ammunition, but on examination, I found them empty.	No evidence	na	no	Evidence for	unknown	first person
319	zgarfield	Case	Ojibwa	Some years previous to the time I now speak of, I was with Net-no-kwa, at Mackinac, when I knew a very promising and highly respected young man of the Ottawwaws who shot himself in the Indian burying grounds. He had, for the first time, drank to intoxication, and in the alienation of mind produced by the liquor had torn off his own clothes, and behaved with so much violence that his two sisters, to prevent him from injuring himself or others, tied his hands and feet, and laid him down in the lodge. Next morning, he awoke sober, and being untied, went to his sister's lodge, which was near the burying ground, borrowed a gun, under pretense of going to shoot pigeons, and went into the burying ground and shot himself. It is probable that when he awoke and found himself tied, he thought he had done something very improper in his drunkenness, and to [p. 98] relieve himself from the pressure of shame and mortification, had ended his days by violence.	No evidence	x	adult	I knew a very promising and highly respected young man of the Ottawwaws who shot himself in the Indian burying grounds. He had, for the first time, drank to intoxication, and in the alienation of mind produced by the liquor had torn off his own clothes, and behaved with so much violence that his two sisters, to prevent him from injuring himself or others, tied his hands and feet, and laid him down in the lodge. Next morning, he awoke sober, and being untied, went to his sister's lodge, which was near the burying ground, borrowed a gun, under pretense of going to shoot pigeons, and went into the burying ground and shot himself. It is probable that when he awoke and found himself tied, he thought he had done something very improper in his drunkenness, and to [p. 98] relieve himself from the pressure of shame and mortification, had ended his days by violence.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	 It is probable that when he awoke and found himself tied, he thought he had done something very improper in his drunkenness, and to [p. 98] relieve himself from the pressure of shame and mortification, had ended his days by violence.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	shooting	It is probable that when he awoke and found himself tied, he thought he had done something very improper in his drunkenness, and to [p. 98] relieve himself from the pressure of shame and mortification, had ended his days by violence.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	He had, for the first time, drank to intoxication, and in the alienation of mind produced by the liquor had torn off his own clothes, and behaved with so much violence that his two sisters, to prevent him from injuring himself or others, tied his hands and feet, and laid him down in the lodge. 	6	x	x		unknown	shame and mortification,	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	private	no	No evidence		firsthand
319	syme	Case	Ojibwa	Some years previous to the time I now speak of, I was with Net-no-kwa, at Mackinac, when I knew a very promising and highly respected young man of the Ottawwaws who shot himself in the Indian burying grounds. He had, for the first time, drank to intoxication, and in the alienation of mind produced by the liquor had torn off his own clothes, and behaved with so much violence that his two sisters, to prevent him from injuring himself or others, tied his hands and feet, and laid him down in the lodge. Next morning, he awoke sober, and being untied, went to his sister's lodge, which was near the burying ground, borrowed a gun, under pretense of going to shoot pigeons, and went into the burying ground and shot himself. It is probable that when he awoke and found himself tied, he thought he had done something very improper in his drunkenness, and to [p. 98] relieve himself from the pressure of shame and mortification, had ended his days by violence.	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	Some years previous to the time I now speak of, I was with Net-no-kwa, at Mackinac, when I knew a very promising and highly respected young man of the Ottawwaws who shot himself in the Indian burying grounds. He had, for the first time, drank to intoxication, and in the alienation of mind produced by the liquor had torn off his own clothes, and behaved with so much violence that his two sisters, to prevent him from injuring himself or others, tied his hands and feet, and laid him down in the lodge. Next morning, he awoke sober, and being untied, went to his sister's lodge, which was near the burying ground, borrowed a gun, under pretense of going to shoot pigeons, and went into the burying ground and shot himself. It is probable that when he awoke and found himself tied, he thought he had done something very improper in his drunkenness, and to [p. 98] relieve himself from the pressure of shame and mortification, had ended his days by violence.	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	shooting	It is probable that when he awoke and found himself tied, he thought he had done something very improper in his drunkenness, and to [p. 98] relieve himself from the pressure of shame and mortification, had ended his days by violence.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	alcohol abuse (once)in the alienation of mind produced by the liquor had torn off his own clothes, and behaved with so much violence that his two sisters, to prevent him from injuring himself or others, tied his hands and feet, and laid him down in the lodge.	6	x	x	x	unknown	shame and mortification	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	private	no	No evidence	high	firsthand
320	zgarfield	Cultural model	Ojibwa	Misfortunes and losses of various kinds, sometimes the death of friends, and possibly, in some instances, disappointment in affairs of love, may be considered the causes which produce suicide among the Indians.	No evidence	x	unknown	Misfortunes and losses of various kinds, sometimes the death of friends, and possibly, in some instances, disappointment in affairs of love, may be considered the causes which produce suicide among the Indians.	interpersonal confli,death loved one,rejection,resource loss	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	death of a loved one,other	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
320	syme	Cultural model	Ojibwa	Misfortunes and losses of various kinds, sometimes the death of friends, and possibly, in some instances, disappointment in affairs of love, may be considered the causes which produce suicide among the Indians.	No evidence	x	unknown	Misfortunes and losses of various kinds, sometimes the death of friends, and possibly, in some instances, disappointment in affairs of love, may be considered the causes which produce suicide among the Indians.	rejection,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	etic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	diasspointment	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	unknown
321	zgarfield	Case	Pawnee	"The conditions of idleness only served to reinforce the revival of the old cultural forms. The Pawnee disliked isolation most of all, and gladly leased their scattered allotments, coming together for a continual round of Ghost Dances, performances, games, and hand game ceremonies. Stripped of their last vestige of responsibility, with no activities that were meaningful or satisfying save these old and new forms of Indian life, they turned to these with a kind of desperation. The experiences of these years, even while the Ghost Dance brought some hope into their lives, caused a number of young men to commit suicide.Eight suicides were recorded in the period from 1892 to 1898. They were reported as occasioned by slight causes, and were traced to the ""pernicious influence of the Ghost Dance."	No evidence	x	adult	"Stripped of their last vestige of responsibility, with no activities that were meaningful or satisfying save these old and new forms of Indian life, they turned to these with a kind of desperation. The experiences of these years, even while the Ghost Dance brought some hope into their lives, caused a number of young men to commit suicide.Eight suicides were recorded in the period from 1892 to 1898. They were reported as occasioned by slight causes, and were traced to the ""pernicious influence of the Ghost Dance."	interpersonal confli,group conflict	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The Pawnee disliked isolation most of all, and gladly leased their scattered allotments, coming together for a continual round of Ghost Dances, performances, games, and hand game ceremonies. Stripped of their last vestige of responsibility, with no activities that were meaningful or satisfying save these old and new forms of Indian life, they turned to these with a kind of desperation. 	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	other	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	desperation	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"They were reported as occasioned by slight causes, and were traced to the ""pernicious influence of the Ghost Dance."	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
321	syme	Case	Pawnee	"The conditions of idleness only served to reinforce the revival of the old cultural forms. The Pawnee disliked isolation most of all, and gladly leased their scattered allotments, coming together for a continual round of Ghost Dances, performances, games, and hand game ceremonies. Stripped of their last vestige of responsibility, with no activities that were meaningful or satisfying save these old and new forms of Indian life, they turned to these with a kind of desperation. The experiences of these years, even while the Ghost Dance brought some hope into their lives, caused a number of young men to commit suicide.Eight suicides were recorded in the period from 1892 to 1898. They were reported as occasioned by slight causes, and were traced to the ""pernicious influence of the Ghost Dance."	No evidence	x	unknown	"The conditions of idleness only served to reinforce the revival of the old cultural forms. The Pawnee disliked isolation most of all, and gladly leased their scattered allotments, coming together for a continual round of Ghost Dances, performances, games, and hand game ceremonies. Stripped of their last vestige of responsibility, with no activities that were meaningful or satisfying save these old and new forms of Indian life, they turned to these with a kind of desperation. The experiences of these years, even while the Ghost Dance brought some hope into their lives, caused a number of young men to commit suicide.Eight suicides were recorded in the period from 1892 to 1898. They were reported as occasioned by slight causes, and were traced to the ""pernicious influence of the Ghost Dance."	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	1	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	8,rate	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
323	zgarfield	Case	Pawnee	"It is said that in 1893 the husband of the Skull bundle keeper, a rather young man, took a notion he would shell the corn for the people and distribute it in a new way. He gathered some men, shelled the ear of corn from the bundle, and distributed it himself. The people remonstrated, but he told them he had had a vision and was going to do just as he was told. In June he and his wife started to the Wichita Mountains. When he got about 35 miles [55 km] south of Pawnee (it was very hot and dry; the dust was about 5 inches [13 cm] thick) his wagon broke down and he had to stay there for several days; but at last he got his wheels repaired and he started again. Traveling was very hard. The old woman who was keeper of the Skull bundle struck him on the back and said, ""You will shell corn, will you. See what you have done!"" That year it was so hot that the crops burned up. On the other hand, some of the people said that had they gone through a certain ceremony it would not have been so, for early in the year a young man had committed suicide; and every time a man commits suicide or kills somebody, if that ceremony is not performed the season will be hot and dry.27"	No evidence	x	young adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"On the other hand, some of the people said that had they gone through a certain ceremony it would not have been so, for early in the year a young man had committed suicide; and every time a man commits suicide or kills somebody, if that ceremony is not performed the season will be hot and dry.27
"	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		documented_account
323	syme	Case	Pawnee	"It is said that in 1893 the husband of the Skull bundle keeper, a rather young man, took a notion he would shell the corn for the people and distribute it in a new way. He gathered some men, shelled the ear of corn from the bundle, and distributed it himself. The people remonstrated, but he told them he had had a vision and was going to do just as he was told. In June he and his wife started to the Wichita Mountains. When he got about 35 miles [55 km] south of Pawnee (it was very hot and dry; the dust was about 5 inches [13 cm] thick) his wagon broke down and he had to stay there for several days; but at last he got his wheels repaired and he started again. Traveling was very hard. The old woman who was keeper of the Skull bundle struck him on the back and said, ""You will shell corn, will you. See what you have done!"" That year it was so hot that the crops burned up. On the other hand, some of the people said that had they gone through a certain ceremony it would not have been so, for early in the year a young man had committed suicide; and every time a man commits suicide or kills somebody, if that ceremony is not performed the season will be hot and dry.27"	No evidence	x	young adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	fearfully	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	yes	1	x	That year it was so hot that the crops burned up. On the other hand, some of the people said that had they gone through a certain ceremony it would not have been so, for early in the year a young man had committed suicide; and every time a man commits suicide or kills somebody, if that ceremony is not performed the season will be hot and dry.27	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	secondhand
324	zgarfield	Case	Pawnee	The case of the old medicine woman is also of interest. Her son, a boy of fourteen, had recently committed suicide. He had resented her second husband and finally shot himself. Otter's older brother Fox Chief had taken the occasion to point out to him that suicide solved nothing and that all the boy had accomplished was to leave his mother all alone.	No evidence	x	young adult	Her son, a boy of fourteen, had recently committed suicide. He had resented her second husband and finally shot himself. 	interpersonal confli	Evidence for	other	Evidence for	Her son, a boy of fourteen, had recently committed suicide. He had resented her second husband and finally shot himself. 	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	shooting	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	male	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	14	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	resent	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	Otter's older brother Fox Chief had taken the occasion to point out to him that suicide solved nothing and that all the boy had accomplished was to leave his mother all alone.	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence against		firsthand
324	syme	Case	Pawnee	The case of the old medicine woman is also of interest. Her son, a boy of fourteen, had recently committed suicide. He had resented her second husband and finally shot himself. Otter's older brother Fox Chief had taken the occasion to point out to him that suicide solved nothing and that all the boy had accomplished was to leave his mother all alone.	No evidence	x	young adult	The case of the old medicine woman is also of interest. Her son, a boy of fourteen, had recently committed suicide. He had resented her second husband and finally shot himself. Otter's older brother Fox Chief had taken the occasion to point out to him that suicide solved nothing and that all the boy had accomplished was to leave his mother all alone.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The case of the old medicine woman is also of interest. Her son, a boy of fourteen, had recently committed suicide. He had resented her second husband and finally shot himself. Otter's older brother Fox Chief had taken the occasion to point out to him that suicide solved nothing and that all the boy had accomplished was to leave his mother all alone.	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	shooting	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	mother	female	na	No evidence	male	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	14	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x	x	no	resentment	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	secondhand
336	zgarfield	Case	Tlingit	One woman, however, remembered hearing of a girl who shot herself when her stepfather tried to take her, or when the mother tried to give her to him; the details were not clear.	Evidence for	x	young adult	 One woman, however, remembered hearing of a girl who shot herself when her stepfather tried to take her, or when the mother tried to give her to him; the details were not clear.	interpersonal confli	Evidence for	unknown	Evidence for	 One woman, however, remembered hearing of a girl who shot herself when her stepfather tried to take her, or when the mother tried to give her to him; the details were not clear.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	shooting	x	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	other	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence against		hearsay
336	syme	Case	Tlingit	One woman, however, remembered hearing of a girl who shot herself when her stepfather tried to take her, or when the mother tried to give her to him; the details were not clear.	Evidence for	x	child,young adult	: One woman, however, remembered hearing of a girl who shot herself when her stepfather tried to take her, or when the mother tried to give her to him; the details were not clear.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	: One woman, however, remembered hearing of a girl who shot herself when her stepfather tried to take her, or when the mother tried to give her to him; the details were not clear.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	shooting	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	mother	female	na	No evidence	female	x	Evidence for		sexual abuse	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	secondhand
337	zgarfield	Case	Tlingit	In another instance, one girl was supposed to have drowned herself because she could not marry her father's young nephew, since the latter had already been appointed by her father as the successor destined to marry his future widow, the girl's mother (cf. Case 10, p. 604). In my opinion, the girl was drowned by accident or through her own carelessness, even though she was despondent and although the young man in question was blamed. [p. 526-b]	No evidence	x	young adult	In another instance, one girl was supposed to have drowned herself because she could not marry her father's young nephew, since the latter had already been appointed by her father as the successor destined to marry his future widow, the girl's mother (cf. Case 10, p. 604). In my opinion, the girl was drowned by accident or through her own carelessness, even though she was despondent and although the young man in question was blamed.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	In another instance, one girl was supposed to have drowned herself because she could not marry her father's young nephew, since the latter had already been appointed by her father as the successor destined to marry his future widow, the girl's mother (cf. Case 10, p. 604). In my opinion, the girl was drowned by accident or through her own carelessness, even though she was despondent and although the young man in question was blamed.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	drowning	In another instance, one girl was supposed to have drowned herself because she could not marry her father's young nephew, since the latter had already been appointed by her father as the successor destined to marry his future widow, the girl's mother 	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	male	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		no	x	In another instance, one girl was supposed to have drowned herself because she could not marry her father's young nephew, since the latter had already been appointed by her father as the successor destined to marry his future widow, the girl's mother 	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence against		firsthand
337	syme	Case	Tlingit	In another instance, one girl was supposed to have drowned herself because she could not marry her father's young nephew, since the latter had already been appointed by her father as the successor destined to marry his future widow, the girl's mother (cf. Case 10, p. 604). In my opinion, the girl was drowned by accident or through her own carelessness, even though she was despondent and although the young man in question was blamed. [p. 526-b]	No evidence	x	young adult,unknown	In another instance, one girl was supposed to have drowned herself because she could not marry her father's young nephew, since the latter had already been appointed by her father as the successor destined to marry his future widow, the girl's mother (cf. Case 10, p. 604). In my opinion, the girl was drowned by accident or through her own carelessness, even though she was despondent and although the young man in question was blamed. 	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	In another instance, one girl was supposed to have drowned herself because she could not marry her father's young nephew, since the latter had already been appointed by her father as the successor destined to marry his future widow, the girl's mother (cf. Case 10, p. 604). In my opinion, the girl was drowned by accident or through her own carelessness, even though she was despondent and although the young man in question was blamed. 	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	drowning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	unclear suicide	no	despondency	despondency	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
338	zgarfield	Case	Tlingit	I also heard of a young man who shot himself because he was spurned by the girl he hoped to marry,	No evidence	x	young adult	I also heard of a young man who shot himself because he was spurned by the girl he hoped to marry,	rejection	No evidence	na	Evidence for	I also heard of a young man who shot himself because he was spurned by the girl he hoped to marry,	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	Evidence against	shooting	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	ado_young_adult	parents	female	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		unknown	 spurned 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		hearsay
338	syme	Case	Tlingit	I also heard of a young man who shot himself because he was spurned by the girl he hoped to marry,	No evidence	x	young adult	I also heard of a young man who shot himself because he was spurned by the girl he hoped to marry,	other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	shooting	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	ado_young_adult,unknown	potential spouse	female	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence against		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
339	zgarfield	Case	Tlingit	and other youths were cited who had shot themselves or each other because of a woman.	No evidence	s	young adult	and other youths were cited who had shot themselves or each other because of a woman.	interpersonal confli,rejection	No evidence	na	Evidence for	and other youths were cited who had shot themselves or each other because of a woman.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	shooting	s	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	ado_young_adult	social partners	female	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		s	x		unknown	x	s	s	s	not stated	x	x	s	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		unknown
339	syme	Case	Tlingit	and other youths were cited who had shot themselves or each other because of a woman.	No evidence	x	young adult	and other youths were cited who had shot themselves or each other because of a woman.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	and other youths were cited who had shot themselves or each other because of a woman.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	shooting	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	ado_young_adult,unknown	potential spouse	female	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence against		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	unknown,rate	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
340	zgarfield	Case	Tlingit	7. About 1890(?), an old Kwac[unknown]kqwan man, CxAkw of Moon House, committed suicide when accused of witchcraft (see p. 743). In some way, the Teqwedi were implicated, and Situk George (Qayakw-'ic, died after 1916) was chosen as 'deer' by the Kwac[unknown]kqwan. His name was White Raven (ye[unknown]l t[unknown]led--was kuwakan omitted?). The name of his opposite was not recorded.	No evidence	x	adult	About 1890(?), an old Kwac[unknown]kqwan man, CxAkw of Moon House, committed suicide when accused of witchcraft	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	About 1890(?), an old Kwac[unknown]kqwan man, CxAkw of Moon House, committed suicide when accused of witchcraft	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		documented_account
340	syme	Case	Tlingit	7. About 1890(?), an old Kwac[unknown]kqwan man, CxAkw of Moon House, committed suicide when accused of witchcraft (see p. 743). In some way, the Teqwedi were implicated, and Situk George (Qayakw-'ic, died after 1916) was chosen as 'deer' by the Kwac[unknown]kqwan. His name was White Raven (ye[unknown]l t[unknown]led--was kuwakan omitted?). The name of his opposite was not recorded.	No evidence	x	unknown	About 1890(?), an old Kwac[unknown]kqwan man, CxAkw of Moon House, committed suicide when accused of witchcraft (see p. 743). 	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	social partners	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence against		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	witchcraft	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	na	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	unknown
341	zgarfield	Case	Tlingit	"For example, a Chilkoot Indian, a Raven man from Yandestake, visiting Sitka in 1881, attempted to kill his wife because he suspected her of infidelity with a Sitka man. He was arrested, but hanged himself in jail. According to custom, his clansmen held the alleged lover responsible. To avoid a feud, Commander Glass held a meeting of the two families concerned, and they agreed to settle the matter by a payment of blankets for the injury. Commander Lull, who temporarily replaced Glass, did not approve of this settlement, but acknowledged it to be just according to Indian law and did not interfere except to restrain the exorbitant demands made by one of the Chilkoot chiefs. When the news of the suicide first reached Yandestake, Danawak (D[unknown]na[unknown]wa[unknown]q, ""Silver/Dollar Eyes""), the leading chief of the dead man's clan ([unknown]Lukwa[unknown][unknown]x[unknown]di, Raven 17), is reported to have blamed the commander for not punishing the man who had caused the suicide. But when he learned of the payment, he was satisfied. (See Glass 1882:29-30; Lull 1882:47.)"	No evidence	x	adult	a Chilkoot Indian, a Raven man from Yandestake, visiting Sitka in 1881, attempted to kill his wife because he suspected her of infidelity with a Sitka man. He was arrested, but hanged himself in jail	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	a Chilkoot Indian, a Raven man from Yandestake, visiting Sitka in 1881, attempted to kill his wife because he suspected her of infidelity with a Sitka man. He was arrested, but hanged himself in jail	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	female	na	No evidence	male		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	According to custom, his clansmen held the alleged lover responsible. To avoid a feud, Commander Glass held a meeting of the two families concerned, and they agreed to settle the matter by a payment of blankets for the injury	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
341	syme	Case	Tlingit	"For example, a Chilkoot Indian, a Raven man from Yandestake, visiting Sitka in 1881, attempted to kill his wife because he suspected her of infidelity with a Sitka man. He was arrested, but hanged himself in jail. According to custom, his clansmen held the alleged lover responsible. To avoid a feud, Commander Glass held a meeting of the two families concerned, and they agreed to settle the matter by a payment of blankets for the injury. Commander Lull, who temporarily replaced Glass, did not approve of this settlement, but acknowledged it to be just according to Indian law and did not interfere except to restrain the exorbitant demands made by one of the Chilkoot chiefs. When the news of the suicide first reached Yandestake, Danawak (D[unknown]na[unknown]wa[unknown]q, ""Silver/Dollar Eyes""), the leading chief of the dead man's clan ([unknown]Lukwa[unknown][unknown]x[unknown]di, Raven 17), is reported to have blamed the commander for not punishing the man who had caused the suicide. But when he learned of the payment, he was satisfied. (See Glass 1882:29-30; Lull 1882:47.)"	No evidence	x	unknown	For example, a Chilkoot Indian, a Raven man from Yandestake, visiting Sitka in 1881, attempted to kill his wife because he suspected her of infidelity with a Sitka man. He was arrested, but hanged himself in jail. According to custom, his clansmen held the alleged lover responsible. 	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	For example, a Chilkoot Indian, a Raven man from Yandestake, visiting Sitka in 1881, attempted to kill his wife because he suspected her of infidelity with a Sitka man. He was arrested, but hanged himself in jail. According to custom, his clansmen held the alleged lover responsible. To avoid a feud, Commander Glass held a meeting of the two families concerned, and they agreed to settle the matter by a payment of blankets for the injury.	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	wife	female	na	Evidence for	male	paramour	No evidence		perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	attempted to murder wife	4	x	x	commit homicide	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"To avoid a feud, Commander Glass held a meeting of the two families concerned, and they agreed to settle the matter by a payment of blankets for the injury. Commander Lull, who temporarily replaced Glass, did not approve of this settlement, but acknowledged it to be just according to Indian law and did not interfere except to restrain the exorbitant demands made by one of the Chilkoot chiefs. When the news of the suicide first reached Yandestake, Danawak (D[unknown]na[unknown]wa[unknown]q, ""Silver/Dollar Eyes""), the leading chief of the dead man's clan ([unknown]Lukwa[unknown][unknown]x[unknown]di, Raven 17), is reported to have blamed the commander for not punishing the man who had caused the suicide. But when he learned of the payment, he was satisfied."	x	Evidence for	private	no	Evidence for	low,unknown	unknown
342	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tlingit	If someone committed suicide, the person who had driven him to this act was held responsible, as Emmons has indicated.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	If someone committed suicide, the person who had driven him to this act was held responsible, as Emmons has indicated.	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
342	syme	Cultural model	Tlingit	If someone committed suicide, the person who had driven him to this act was held responsible, as Emmons has indicated.	No evidence	x	unknown	 If someone committed suicide, the person who had driven him to this act was held responsible, as Emmons has indicated.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 If someone committed suicide, the person who had driven him to this act was held responsible, as Emmons has indicated.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	 If someone committed suicide, the person who had driven him to this act was held responsible, as Emmons has indicated.	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
344	zgarfield	Case	Tlingit	A man committed suicide simply to make trouble for one who offended him.	No evidence	x	adult	"A man committed suicide simply to make trouble for one who offended him.
"	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"A man committed suicide simply to make trouble for one who offended him.
"	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	"A man committed suicide simply to make trouble for one who offended him.
"	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	social partners	male	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	offended	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		unknown
344	syme	Case	Tlingit	A man committed suicide simply to make trouble for one who offended him.	No evidence	x	unknown	 A man committed suicide simply to make trouble for one who offended him.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 A man committed suicide simply to make trouble for one who offended him.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	 A man committed suicide simply to make trouble for one who offended him.	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
345	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tlingit	The threat of suicide is sometimes used as a bluff to get one's way.	No evidence	x	unknown	The threat of suicide is sometimes used as a bluff to get one's way.	unknown	No evidence	na	Evidence for	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	unknown	x	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
345	syme	Cultural model	Tlingit	The threat of suicide is sometimes used as a bluff to get one's way.	No evidence	x	unknown	The threat of suicide is sometimes used as a bluff to get one's way.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The threat of suicide is sometimes used as a bluff to get one's way.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	The threat of suicide is sometimes used as a bluff to get one's way.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		no evidence	threat	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	public	no	No evidence	unknown	na
346	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tlingit	"Accounts of nineteenth century funerals do indicate that expressions of grief were often violent: mourners often shrieked, wept uncontrollably, inflicted cuts and bruises upon themselves, and even tried to throw themselves into the pyre (Khlebnikov 1976:29; Veniaminov 1984:420; de Laguna 1972:532). According to several sources, they even occasionally committed suicide and, in the post-contact era, ""stupefied themselves with liquor"" (Jones 1914:9)."	No evidence	x	unknown	"Accounts of nineteenth century funerals do indicate that expressions of grief were often violent: mourners often shrieked, wept uncontrollably, inflicted cuts and bruises upon themselves, and even tried to throw themselves into the pyre (Khlebnikov 1976:29; Veniaminov 1984:420; de Laguna 1972:532). According to several sources, they even occasionally committed suicide and, in the post-contact era, ""stupefied themselves with liquor"" (Jones 1914:9)."	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	death of a loved one	attempt,completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	mourners often shrieked, wept uncontrollably, inflicted cuts and bruises upon themselves, and even tried to throw themselves into the pyre 		x	x		na	grief	Accounts of nineteenth century funerals do indicate that expressions of grief were often violent: mourners often shrieked, wept uncontrollably, inflicted cuts and bruises upon themselves, and even tried to throw themselves into the pyre 	x	x	not stated	?	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		na
346	syme	Cultural model	Tlingit	"Accounts of nineteenth century funerals do indicate that expressions of grief were often violent: mourners often shrieked, wept uncontrollably, inflicted cuts and bruises upon themselves, and even tried to throw themselves into the pyre (Khlebnikov 1976:29; Veniaminov 1984:420; de Laguna 1972:532). According to several sources, they even occasionally committed suicide and, in the post-contact era, ""stupefied themselves with liquor"" (Jones 1914:9)."	Evidence for	x	unknown	"Accounts of nineteenth century funerals do indicate that expressions of grief were often violent: mourners often shrieked, wept uncontrollably, inflicted cuts and bruises upon themselves, and even tried to throw themselves into the pyre (Khlebnikov 1976:29; Veniaminov 1984:420; de Laguna 1972:532). According to several sources, they even occasionally committed suicide and, in the post-contact era, ""stupefied themselves with liquor"" (Jones 1914:9)."	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	etic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	burning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		no evidence	attempt,completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	alcohol use, DSH, weeping	x	x	x	drunk at time, DSH	unknown	grief, mourning	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
347	zgarfield	Case	Tlingit	There are accounts of aristocratic women committing suicide rather than having to witness such cowardly behavior on the part of their sons or brothers (Kan 1979-1987).	No evidence	x	adult	 There are accounts of aristocratic women committing suicide rather than having to witness such cowardly behavior on the part of their sons or brothers	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		documented_account
347	syme	Case	Tlingit	There are accounts of aristocratic women committing suicide rather than having to witness such cowardly behavior on the part of their sons or brothers (Kan 1979-1987).	No evidence	x	unknown	There are accounts of aristocratic women committing suicide rather than having to witness such cowardly behavior on the part of their sons or brothers (Kan 1979-1987).	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	There are accounts of aristocratic women committing suicide rather than having to witness such cowardly behavior on the part of their sons or brothers (Kan 1979-1987).	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	unknown,rate	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	high	na
349	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tlingit	An important concern for the Tlingit was that their death would be avenged. In fact, if the murderer or his relative was not killed, the victim was not able to enter the warriors' heaven. A powerless person unable to punish his enemy or obtain retribution for insults would often commit suicide, in order to force his own kin to carry out the punishment (Krause 1956:155).	Evidence for	x	adult	A powerless person unable to punish his enemy or obtain retribution for insults would often commit suicide, in order to force his own kin to carry out the punishment	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	A powerless person unable to punish his enemy or obtain retribution for insults would often commit suicide, in order to force his own kin to carry out the punishment	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	A powerless person unable to punish his enemy or obtain retribution for insults would often commit suicide, in order to force his own kin to carry out the punishment	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		Evidence for	Evidence for	other	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		firsthand
349	syme	Cultural model	Tlingit	An important concern for the Tlingit was that their death would be avenged. In fact, if the murderer or his relative was not killed, the victim was not able to enter the warriors' heaven. A powerless person unable to punish his enemy or obtain retribution for insults would often commit suicide, in order to force his own kin to carry out the punishment (Krause 1956:155).	No evidence	x	unknown	An important concern for the Tlingit was that their death would be avenged. In fact, if the murderer or his relative was not killed, the victim was not able to enter the warriors' heaven. A powerless person unable to punish his enemy or obtain retribution for insults would often commit suicide, in order to force his own kin to carry out the punishment (Krause 1956:155).	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	An important concern for the Tlingit was that their death would be avenged. In fact, if the murderer or his relative was not killed, the victim was not able to enter the warriors' heaven. A powerless person unable to punish his enemy or obtain retribution for insults would often commit suicide, in order to force his own kin to carry out the punishment (Krause 1956:155).	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	A powerless person unable to punish his enemy or obtain retribution for insults would often commit suicide, in order to force his own kin to carry out the punishment (Krause 1956:155).	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	 A powerless person unable to punish his enemy or obtain retribution for insults would often commit suicide, in order to force his own kin to carry out the punishment (Krause 1956:155).	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence against	unknown	na
350	zgarfield	Case	Tlingit	A similar instance came under the writer's own observation. Two brothers in Sitka secured and lacerated the tongue of a raven, hiding it in a chink in the outer wall of their house. One morning, to their terror, they found it missing. Through fear and suspense one brother lost his mind and killed himself. The other brother made numerous attempts to follow his example and was finally successful.	No evidence	x	unknown	 A similar instance came under the writer's own observation. Two brothers in Sitka secured and lacerated the tongue of a raven, hiding it in a chink in the outer wall of their house. One morning, to their terror, they found it missing. Through fear and suspense one brother lost his mind and killed himself. The other brother made numerous attempts to follow his example and was finally successful.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	brother	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	attempt,completion	 x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	fear and suspense 	x	x	x	not stated	2 	Through fear and suspense one brother lost his mind and killed himself. 	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence against		firsthand
350	syme	Case	Tlingit	A similar instance came under the writer's own observation. Two brothers in Sitka secured and lacerated the tongue of a raven, hiding it in a chink in the outer wall of their house. One morning, to their terror, they found it missing. Through fear and suspense one brother lost his mind and killed himself. The other brother made numerous attempts to follow his example and was finally successful.	No evidence	x	unknown	Two brothers in Sitka secured and lacerated the tongue of a raven, hiding it in a chink in the outer wall of their house. One morning, to their terror, they found it missing. Through fear and suspense one brother lost his mind and killed himself.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	unknown	fear and suspense	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	his brother also committed suicide	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
351	zgarfield	Case	Tlingit	A woman was accused by a shaman of the Stikine of causing the illness of another woman by witchcraft, and the relatives of the latter faced her with this accusation. This upset the accused woman so that she seized a knife and cut her throat. As a result the shaman, as well as the relatives of the sick woman who brought the accusation, were besieged by the relatives of the dead woman in their houses until they acknowledged their guilt.	No evidence	x	adult	A woman was accused by a shaman of the Stikine of causing the illness of another woman by witchcraft, and the relatives of the latter faced her with this accusation. This upset the accused woman so that she seized a knife and cut her throat. 	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	A woman was accused by a shaman of the Stikine of causing the illness of another woman by witchcraft, and the relatives of the latter faced her with this accusation. This upset the accused woman so that she seized a knife and cut her throat. 	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	bleed_to_death	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x		unknown	upset	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"As a result the shaman, as well as the relatives of the sick woman who brought the accusation, were besieged by the relatives of the dead woman in their houses until they acknowledged their guilt.
"	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
351	syme	Case	Tlingit	A woman was accused by a shaman of the Stikine of causing the illness of another woman by witchcraft, and the relatives of the latter faced her with this accusation. This upset the accused woman so that she seized a knife and cut her throat. As a result the shaman, as well as the relatives of the sick woman who brought the accusation, were besieged by the relatives of the dead woman in their houses until they acknowledged their guilt.	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	A woman was accused by a shaman of the Stikine of causing the illness of another woman by witchcraft, and the relatives of the latter faced her with this accusation. This upset the accused woman so that she seized a knife and cut her throat. As a result the shaman, as well as the relatives of the sick woman who brought the accusation, were besieged by the relatives of the dead woman in their houses until they acknowledged their guilt.	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	A woman was accused by a shaman of the Stikine of causing the illness of another woman by witchcraft, and the relatives of the latter faced her with this accusation. This upset the accused woman so that she seized a knife and cut her throat. As a result the shaman, as well as the relatives of the sick woman who brought the accusation, were besieged by the relatives of the dead woman in their houses until they acknowledged their guilt.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	bleed_to_death	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	social group	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x	witchcraft	unknown	upset	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	As a result the shaman, as well as the relatives of the sick woman who brought the accusation, were besieged by the relatives of the dead woman in their houses until they acknowledged their guilt.	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	unknown
352	zgarfield	Case	Tlingit	A way of seeking death by those who wish to end their lives is to commit themselves to the sea in a canoe without paddles. The story goes that a Chilkat Indian who was badly scratched up in a fight with his wife, through shame and anger, left without a word to commit suicide after spending the night sitting in the trader's house. However, this time it went no further than the attempt. After dark the following evening the supposed dead man returned and without much resistance allowed himself to be reconciled with his wife.	Evidence for	x	adult	The story goes that a Chilkat Indian who was badly scratched up in a fight with his wife, through shame and anger, left without a word to commit suicide after spending the night sitting in the trader's house. However, this time it went no further than the attempt. After dark the following evening the supposed dead man returned and without much resistance allowed himself to be reconciled with his wife.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The story goes that a Chilkat Indian who was badly scratched up in a fight with his wife, through shame and anger, left without a word to commit suicide after spending the night sitting in the trader's house. However, this time it went no further than the attempt. After dark the following evening the supposed dead man returned and without much resistance allowed himself to be reconciled with his wife.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	female	na	No evidence	male		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	moderate	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x		unknown	shame and anger	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"However, this time it went no further than the attempt. After dark the following evening the supposed dead man returned and without much resistance allowed himself to be reconciled with his wife.
"	badly scratched up	No evidence	private	no	Evidence against		hearsay
352	syme	Case	Tlingit	A way of seeking death by those who wish to end their lives is to commit themselves to the sea in a canoe without paddles. The story goes that a Chilkat Indian who was badly scratched up in a fight with his wife, through shame and anger, left without a word to commit suicide after spending the night sitting in the trader's house. However, this time it went no further than the attempt. After dark the following evening the supposed dead man returned and without much resistance allowed himself to be reconciled with his wife.	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	A way of seeking death by those who wish to end their lives is to commit themselves to the sea in a canoe without paddles. The story goes that a Chilkat Indian who was badly scratched up in a fight with his wife, through shame and anger, left without a word to commit suicide after spending the night sitting in the trader's house. However, this time it went no further than the attempt. After dark the following evening the supposed dead man returned and without much resistance allowed himself to be reconciled with his wife.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	A way of seeking death by those who wish to end their lives is to commit themselves to the sea in a canoe without paddles. The story goes that a Chilkat Indian who was badly scratched up in a fight with his wife, through shame and anger, left without a word to commit suicide after spending the night sitting in the trader's house. However, this time it went no further than the attempt. After dark the following evening the supposed dead man returned and without much resistance allowed himself to be reconciled with his wife.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	wife	female	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence for		physical abuse	attempt	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	physical fight with wife	6	x	x	x	unknown	shame and anger	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	After dark the following evening the supposed dead man returned and without much resistance allowed himself to be reconciled with his wife.	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
353	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tlingit	An injured person who has no possibility of revenge, or someone who is pursued and sees no way out, takes his life with the thought that he is thereby injuring his enemy, for the person who drives another to suicide will still be held responsible by the dead man's friends and relatives, just as though he had killed him outright.	No evidence	x	unknown	"An injured person who has no possibility of revenge, or someone who is pursued and sees no way out, takes his life with the thought that he is thereby injuring his enemy, for the person who drives another to suicide will still be held responsible by the dead man's friends and relatives, just as though he had killed him outright.
"	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"An injured person who has no possibility of revenge, or someone who is pursued and sees no way out, takes his life with the thought that he is thereby injuring his enemy, for the person who drives another to suicide will still be held responsible by the dead man's friends and relatives, just as though he had killed him outright.
"	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	takes his life with the thought that he is thereby injuring his enemy,	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	social partners	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	sees no way out		na	x	An injured person who has no possibility of revenge, or someone who is pursued and sees no way out, takes his life with the thought that he is thereby injuring his enemy,	x	x	not stated	1	x	"the person who drives another to suicide will still be held responsible by the dead man's friends and relatives, just as though he had killed him outright.
"	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
353	syme	Cultural model	Tlingit	An injured person who has no possibility of revenge, or someone who is pursued and sees no way out, takes his life with the thought that he is thereby injuring his enemy, for the person who drives another to suicide will still be held responsible by the dead man's friends and relatives, just as though he had killed him outright.	No evidence	x	unknown	An injured person who has no possibility of revenge, or someone who is pursued and sees no way out, takes his life with the thought that he is thereby injuring his enemy, for the person who drives another to suicide will still be held responsible by the dead man's friends and relatives, just as though he had killed him outright.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	An injured person who has no possibility of revenge, or someone who is pursued and sees no way out, takes his life with the thought that he is thereby injuring his enemy, for the person who drives another to suicide will still be held responsible by the dead man's friends and relatives, just as though he had killed him outright.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	An injured person who has no possibility of revenge, or someone who is pursued and sees no way out, takes his life with the thought that he is thereby injuring his enemy	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	unknown	na	na	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	sees no way out	x	x	not stated	1	x	 for the person who drives another to suicide will still be held responsible by the dead man's friends and relatives, just as though he had killed him outright.	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
355	zgarfield	Case	Tlingit	In the old days most ceremonial paraphernalia was apparently burned with the corpse of the owning lineage chief, but today it is supposed to be held in perpetual trust. However, some custodians have destroyed these heirlooms rather than let them be acquired by a museum, or worse, by another sib. The ranking house chief controls the display of all major sib emblems within a given locality, and can therefore theoretically prevent a lesser house chief from initiating a potlatch. But how often such a right is exercised is not clear. In one case the nephew of a sib chief attempted suicide because his uncle refused him permission to give a potlatch for his dead mother, and in another instance an older brother would not let his younger brother build a new lineage house. Jealousy often enters into such a situation, for while each new named house means reaffirmation of sib unity, at the same time individual house chiefs acquire added social status.	Evidence for	x	adult	In one case the nephew of a sib chief attempted suicide because his uncle refused him permission to give a potlatch for his dead mother,	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	In one case the nephew of a sib chief attempted suicide because his uncle refused him permission to give a potlatch for his dead mother,	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	kin	male	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	death of a loved one	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
355	syme	Case	Tlingit	In the old days most ceremonial paraphernalia was apparently burned with the corpse of the owning lineage chief, but today it is supposed to be held in perpetual trust. However, some custodians have destroyed these heirlooms rather than let them be acquired by a museum, or worse, by another sib. The ranking house chief controls the display of all major sib emblems within a given locality, and can therefore theoretically prevent a lesser house chief from initiating a potlatch. But how often such a right is exercised is not clear. In one case the nephew of a sib chief attempted suicide because his uncle refused him permission to give a potlatch for his dead mother, and in another instance an older brother would not let his younger brother build a new lineage house. Jealousy often enters into such a situation, for while each new named house means reaffirmation of sib unity, at the same time individual house chiefs acquire added social status.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,unknown	In one case the nephew of a sib chief attempted suicide because his uncle refused him permission to give a potlatch for his dead mother, and in another instance an older brother would not let his younger brother build a new lineage house. 	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	In one case the nephew of a sib chief attempted suicide because his uncle refused him permission to give a potlatch for his dead mother, and in another instance an older brother would not let his younger brother build a new lineage house.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult,unknown	uncle	male	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	death loved one	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	high,average,unknown	unknown
357	zgarfield	Case	Tlingit	"THE ORIGIN OF KLAWAK There was (once) a man named Tl[unknown]awa'h.204 He had a son named Tihge't. Tihget's mother was Takuye'tl and his uncle (mother's brother) was Yetlcani'h (old raven). The uncle's wife was quite young while her husband, Yetlcanih, was along in years. She took a fancy to Tihget, who was living in his uncle's house, as is customary. One day on the pretext of giving him some clothing and tobacco she asked him into her bedroom and began making love to him. Eventually he yielded. That same night she felt she was pregnant. Her husband was away at the time. He returned, and after some months he asked her how it was that her menses had stopped. Then she confessed to her affair. She was childless and she hoped her husband would give her to his nephew Tihget as a wife [a fairly common custom]. But the husband was angry and threatened to kill Tihget, saying, ""If I forgive him the next generation will do the same thing."" Tihget was blas and said, ""All right. Let him kill me. I didn't wish to sleep with her."" The wife told her husband, ""If you wish to kill me, all right. If you kill your nephew, I'll die with him. It is better if I and his child within me die with him."" But he wished to kill only his nephew. The woman went to her husband's sister and told all, asking her to tell her husband, Tlawah, Tihget's father, so he could plan to save his son. The next day Tlawah said to his wife, ""We had better leave this country."" They agreed to go to the north. She wanted to. (They were living at K[unknown]ad[unknown]ukhuka'h on Kanaganut Island.) Tihget no longer slept in the house but hid himself. Tlawah called together all the Ganaxadi men who were married to Tekwedih women. He said he wanted to move away to prevent war between the two clans, and to save his son. He asked the Ganaxadi if they wanted to war on their own ""children,"" the Tekwedih. They answered ""no."" They agreed to take their wives and children and to go away themselves. Near Ketchikan is a humpback-salmon creek called Ana'n, owned by the Tekwedih. Tlawah went where the Ganaxadi had fishing camps, while Yetlcanih and his group went to Anan. Later he went to the Ganaxadi camp, because his wife was soon to have her child and he came to kill his nephew. It was night and high tide. Tlawah and his group secretly packed their things in canoes and hid them. In the morning it was foggy and they started out, singing a song called k[unknown]atna'wustakihc[unknown]i'h (moving away our clan). Then Yetleanih called all the remaining people together on the beach and wept. He was sorry for what he had done. Tlawah and his group sang ""akanitlkuk[unknown]atl'n"" (my land nevermore I'll see) as they went. Tihget stood in the bow of the canoe and faced out to sea, for he didn't wish to see his uncle. As the tide came in, the current took the canoe to the north. They didn't paddle. But Yetlcanih stood at the beach and let the tide reach to his waist. He was going to allow himself to drown because his wife was the cause of his losing his nephew and his father's people. [p. 103-b] But his brothers-in-law came out, took him in and talked to him, and ""made him feel good."" Told by John Darrow, a member of the Ganaxadi clan. This account is certainly semihistorical."	No evidence	x	adult	" But the husband was angry and threatened to kill Tihget, saying, ""If I forgive him the next generation will do the same thing."" Tihget was blas and said, ""All right. Let him kill me. I didn't wish to sleep with her."" The wife told her husband, ""If you wish to kill me, all right. If you kill your nephew, I'll die with him. It is better if I and his child within me die with him."" But he wished to kill only his nephew."	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	" But the husband was angry and threatened to kill Tihget, saying, ""If I forgive him the next generation will do the same thing."" Tihget was blas and said, ""All right. Let him kill me. I didn't wish to sleep with her."" The wife told her husband, ""If you wish to kill me, all right. If you kill your nephew, I'll die with him. It is better if I and his child within me die with him."" But he wished to kill only his nephew."	fearfully	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	If you kill your nephew, I'll die with him. It is better if I and his child within me die with him.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	male	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	threat	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence against		firsthand
357	syme	Case	Tlingit	"THE ORIGIN OF KLAWAK There was (once) a man named Tl[unknown]awa'h.204 He had a son named Tihge't. Tihget's mother was Takuye'tl and his uncle (mother's brother) was Yetlcani'h (old raven). The uncle's wife was quite young while her husband, Yetlcanih, was along in years. She took a fancy to Tihget, who was living in his uncle's house, as is customary. One day on the pretext of giving him some clothing and tobacco she asked him into her bedroom and began making love to him. Eventually he yielded. That same night she felt she was pregnant. Her husband was away at the time. He returned, and after some months he asked her how it was that her menses had stopped. Then she confessed to her affair. She was childless and she hoped her husband would give her to his nephew Tihget as a wife [a fairly common custom]. But the husband was angry and threatened to kill Tihget, saying, ""If I forgive him the next generation will do the same thing."" Tihget was blas and said, ""All right. Let him kill me. I didn't wish to sleep with her."" The wife told her husband, ""If you wish to kill me, all right. If you kill your nephew, I'll die with him. It is better if I and his child within me die with him."" But he wished to kill only his nephew. The woman went to her husband's sister and told all, asking her to tell her husband, Tlawah, Tihget's father, so he could plan to save his son. The next day Tlawah said to his wife, ""We had better leave this country."" They agreed to go to the north. She wanted to. (They were living at K[unknown]ad[unknown]ukhuka'h on Kanaganut Island.) Tihget no longer slept in the house but hid himself. Tlawah called together all the Ganaxadi men who were married to Tekwedih women. He said he wanted to move away to prevent war between the two clans, and to save his son. He asked the Ganaxadi if they wanted to war on their own ""children,"" the Tekwedih. They answered ""no."" They agreed to take their wives and children and to go away themselves. Near Ketchikan is a humpback-salmon creek called Ana'n, owned by the Tekwedih. Tlawah went where the Ganaxadi had fishing camps, while Yetlcanih and his group went to Anan. Later he went to the Ganaxadi camp, because his wife was soon to have her child and he came to kill his nephew. It was night and high tide. Tlawah and his group secretly packed their things in canoes and hid them. In the morning it was foggy and they started out, singing a song called k[unknown]atna'wustakihc[unknown]i'h (moving away our clan). Then Yetleanih called all the remaining people together on the beach and wept. He was sorry for what he had done. Tlawah and his group sang ""akanitlkuk[unknown]atl'n"" (my land nevermore I'll see) as they went. Tihget stood in the bow of the canoe and faced out to sea, for he didn't wish to see his uncle. As the tide came in, the current took the canoe to the north. They didn't paddle. But Yetlcanih stood at the beach and let the tide reach to his waist. He was going to allow himself to drown because his wife was the cause of his losing his nephew and his father's people. [p. 103-b] But his brothers-in-law came out, took him in and talked to him, and ""made him feel good."" Told by John Darrow, a member of the Ganaxadi clan. This account is certainly semihistorical."	No evidence	x	elderly,unknown	"But Yetlcanih stood at the beach and let the tide reach to his waist. He was going to allow himself to drown because his wife was the cause of his losing his nephew and his father's people. [p. 103-b] But his brothers-in-law came out, took him in and talked to him, and ""made him feel good."" Told by John Darrow, a member of the Ganaxadi clan. This account is certainly semihistorical."	interpersonal confli,group conflict,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"THE ORIGIN OF KLAWAK There was (once) a man named Tl[unknown]awa'h.204 He had a son named Tihge't. Tihget's mother was Takuye'tl and his uncle (mother's brother) was Yetlcani'h (old raven). The uncle's wife was quite young while her husband, Yetlcanih, was along in years. She took a fancy to Tihget, who was living in his uncle's house, as is customary. One day on the pretext of giving him some clothing and tobacco she asked him into her bedroom and began making love to him. Eventually he yielded. That same night she felt she was pregnant. Her husband was away at the time. He returned, and after some months he asked her how it was that her menses had stopped. Then she confessed to her affair. She was childless and she hoped her husband would give her to his nephew Tihget as a wife [a fairly common custom]. But the husband was angry and threatened to kill Tihget, saying, ""If I forgive him the next generation will do the same thing."" Tihget was blas and said, ""All right. Let him kill me. I didn't wish to sleep with her."" The wife told her husband, ""If you wish to kill me, all right. If you kill your nephew, I'll die with him. It is better if I and his child within me die with him."" But he wished to kill only his nephew. The woman went to her husband's sister and told all, asking her to tell her husband, Tlawah, Tihget's father, so he could plan to save his son. The next day Tlawah said to his wife, ""We had better leave this country."" They agreed to go to the north. She wanted to. (They were living at K[unknown]ad[unknown]ukhuka'h on Kanaganut Island.) Tihget no longer slept in the house but hid himself. Tlawah called together all the Ganaxadi men who were married to Tekwedih women. He said he wanted to move away to prevent war between the two clans, and to save his son. He asked the Ganaxadi if they wanted to war on their own ""children,"" the Tekwedih. They answered ""no."" They agreed to take their wives and children and to go away themselves. Near Ketchikan is a humpback-salmon creek called Ana'n, owned by the Tekwedih. Tlawah went where the Ganaxadi had fishing camps, while Yetlcanih and his group went to Anan. Later he went to the Ganaxadi camp, because his wife was soon to have her child and he came to kill his nephew. It was night and high tide. Tlawah and his group secretly packed their things in canoes and hid them. In the morning it was foggy and they started out, singing a song called k[unknown]atna'wustakihc[unknown]i'h (moving away our clan). Then Yetleanih called all the remaining people together on the beach and wept. He was sorry for what he had done. Tlawah and his group sang ""akanitlkuk[unknown]atl'n"" (my land nevermore I'll see) as they went. Tihget stood in the bow of the canoe and faced out to sea, for he didn't wish to see his uncle. As the tide came in, the current took the canoe to the north. They didn't paddle. But Yetlcanih stood at the beach and let the tide reach to his waist. He was going to allow himself to drown because his wife was the cause of his losing his nephew and his father's people. [p. 103-b] But his brothers-in-law came out, took him in and talked to him, and ""made him feel good."" Told by John Darrow, a member of the Ganaxadi clan. This account is certainly semihistorical."	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	drowning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	wife,kin group	both	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence for		no evidence	threat,attempt,unknown	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	threaten to murder nephew	6	x	x	x	no	"anger, remorse (""he was sorry"")"	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"But his brothers-in-law came out, took him in and talked to him, and ""made him feel good."""	x	Evidence for	public	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	hearsay
358	zgarfield	Case	Tlingit	"In Sitka there was a widow of the Kiksadi clan living in a house with some kinsmen. She was working black magic and claimed she did so because she could not help it; that she had been bewitched by some members of the Kagwantan clan. They had given her snuff mixed with lime from clam shells. These sorcerers came to her in their inhuman guises. She could hear them, for a sorcerer as he walks makes a crackling sound on the ground. This woman wished to stop her sorcery but had a compulsive urge to carry it on. She asked that Christian prayers be said for her. In the house next to her a man lay dying. At the instant of his death the witch cried out, ""Save him!"" Then she came out of her trancelike state. The next day she put her images with which she worked magic in the water and thus prevented the deaths of the persons the images represented. They took the witch to Reverend Austin, the Presbyterian minister, who was skeptical. He made a test of her power. He put peanuts in a bowl in the kitchen, then asked her to cause some to fly into her hand. She immediately handed him four. Then they sent for a woman named Tlask[unknown]e'h, a powerful witch. This one worked over her for an hour but could not open the ""covers"" in her, for a more powerful witch was working against it. A few days later the poor woman (who wanted to confess but could not) committed suicide by hanging herself."	No evidence	x	elderly	"This woman wished to stop her sorcery but had a compulsive urge to carry it on. She asked that Christian prayers be said for her. In the house next to her a man lay dying. At the instant of his death the witch cried out, ""Save him!"" Then she came out of her trancelike state. The next day she put her images with which she worked magic in the water and thus prevented the deaths of the persons the images represented. They took the witch to Reverend Austin, the Presbyterian minister, who was skeptical. He made a test of her power. He put peanuts in a bowl in the kitchen, then asked her to cause some to fly into her hand. She immediately handed him four. Then they sent for a woman named Tlask[unknown]e'h, a powerful witch. This one worked over her for an hour but could not open the ""covers"" in her, for a more powerful witch was working against it. A few days later the poor woman (who wanted to confess but could not) committed suicide by hanging herself."	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo,spirit attack	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"This woman wished to stop her sorcery but had a compulsive urge to carry it on. She asked that Christian prayers be said for her. In the house next to her a man lay dying. At the instant of his death the witch cried out, ""Save him!"" Then she came out of her trancelike state. The next day she put her images with which she worked magic in the water and thus prevented the deaths of the persons the images represented. They took the witch to Reverend Austin, the Presbyterian minister, who was skeptical. He made a test of her power. He put peanuts in a bowl in the kitchen, then asked her to cause some to fly into her hand. She immediately handed him four. Then they sent for a woman named Tlask[unknown]e'h, a powerful witch. This one worked over her for an hour but could not open the ""covers"" in her, for a more powerful witch was working against it. A few days later the poor woman (who wanted to confess but could not) committed suicide by hanging herself."	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	She was working black magic and claimed she did so because she could not help it; that she had been bewitched by some members of the Kagwantan clan. 		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
358	syme	Case	Tlingit	"In Sitka there was a widow of the Kiksadi clan living in a house with some kinsmen. She was working black magic and claimed she did so because she could not help it; that she had been bewitched by some members of the Kagwantan clan. They had given her snuff mixed with lime from clam shells. These sorcerers came to her in their inhuman guises. She could hear them, for a sorcerer as he walks makes a crackling sound on the ground. This woman wished to stop her sorcery but had a compulsive urge to carry it on. She asked that Christian prayers be said for her. In the house next to her a man lay dying. At the instant of his death the witch cried out, ""Save him!"" Then she came out of her trancelike state. The next day she put her images with which she worked magic in the water and thus prevented the deaths of the persons the images represented. They took the witch to Reverend Austin, the Presbyterian minister, who was skeptical. He made a test of her power. He put peanuts in a bowl in the kitchen, then asked her to cause some to fly into her hand. She immediately handed him four. Then they sent for a woman named Tlask[unknown]e'h, a powerful witch. This one worked over her for an hour but could not open the ""covers"" in her, for a more powerful witch was working against it. A few days later the poor woman (who wanted to confess but could not) committed suicide by hanging herself."	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	"In Sitka there was a widow of the Kiksadi clan living in a house with some kinsmen. She was working black magic and claimed she did so because she could not help it; that she had been bewitched by some members of the Kagwantan clan. They had given her snuff mixed with lime from clam shells. These sorcerers came to her in their inhuman guises. She could hear them, for a sorcerer as he walks makes a crackling sound on the ground. This woman wished to stop her sorcery but had a compulsive urge to carry it on. She asked that Christian prayers be said for her. In the house next to her a man lay dying. At the instant of his death the witch cried out, ""Save him!"" Then she came out of her trancelike state. The next day she put her images with which she worked magic in the water and thus prevented the deaths of the persons the images represented. They took the witch to Reverend Austin, the Presbyterian minister, who was skeptical. He made a test of her power. He put peanuts in a bowl in the kitchen, then asked her to cause some to fly into her hand. She immediately handed him four. Then they sent for a woman named Tlask[unknown]e'h, a powerful witch. This one worked over her for an hour but could not open the ""covers"" in her, for a more powerful witch was working against it. A few days later the poor woman (who wanted to confess but could not) committed suicide by hanging herself."	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	unknown	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence			completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	trance state	4	x	x	trance state	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	"In Sitka there was a widow of the Kiksadi clan living in a house with some kinsmen. She was working black magic and claimed she did so because she could not help it; that she had been bewitched by some members of the Kagwantan clan. They had given her snuff mixed with lime from clam shells. These sorcerers came to her in their inhuman guises. She could hear them, for a sorcerer as he walks makes a crackling sound on the ground. This woman wished to stop her sorcery but had a compulsive urge to carry it on. She asked that Christian prayers be said for her. In the house next to her a man lay dying. At the instant of his death the witch cried out, ""Save him!"" Then she came out of her trancelike state. The next day she put her images with which she worked magic in the water and thus prevented the deaths of the persons the images represented. "	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	low,unknown	unknown
367	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chuuk	"""injured pride"""	No evidence	x	na	"""injured pride"""	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	na		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	1	x	x		unknown	"""injured pride"""	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		na
367	syme	Cultural model	Chuuk	"""injured pride"""	No evidence	x	unknown	"""injured pride"""	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
368	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chuuk	"""mourning for a deceased person (especially among old married people)"""	No evidence	x	unknown	" ""mourning for a deceased person (especially among old married people)"""	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	death of a loved one	unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	mourning 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		unknown
368	syme	Cultural model	Chuuk	"""mourning for a deceased person (especially among old married people)"""	No evidence	x	elderly	" ""mourning for a deceased person (especially among old married people)"""	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	both	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	mourning	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
369	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chuuk	"""fear of punishment"""	No evidence	x	unknown	"""fear of punishment"""	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na		not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	fear	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		unknown
369	syme	Cultural model	Chuuk	"""fear of punishment"""	No evidence	x	unknown	"""fear of punishment"""	accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	fear	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence against	low,unknown	na
370	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chuuk	"""lover's grief"""	No evidence	x	unknown	"""lover's grief"""	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	death of a loved one	unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	grief	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		unknown
370	syme	Cultural model	Chuuk	"""lover's grief"""	No evidence	x	na	"""lover's grief"""	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	both	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	grief		x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
371	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chuuk	Parents say they must be tolerant of defiance because they are afraid that, in his or her anger, the child might commit suicide to spite them. The rare cases of suicide are mentioned often. Children appear to exploit this parental fear, and in so doing learn to manipulate other people's fears.	No evidence	x	child	Parents say they must be tolerant of defiance because they are afraid that, in his or her anger, the child might commit suicide to spite them	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Parents say they must be tolerant of defiance because they are afraid that, in his or her anger, the child might commit suicide to spite them	fearfully	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	Parents say they must be tolerant of defiance because they are afraid that, in his or her anger, the child might commit suicide to spite them	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	unknown		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	threat	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		no	anger	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"Children appear to exploit this parental fear, and in so doing learn to manipulate other people's fears.
"	x	No evidence	public	no	Evidence against		firsthand
371	syme	Cultural model	Chuuk	Parents say they must be tolerant of defiance because they are afraid that, in his or her anger, the child might commit suicide to spite them. The rare cases of suicide are mentioned often. Children appear to exploit this parental fear, and in so doing learn to manipulate other people's fears.	No evidence	x	child,young adult	Parents say they must be tolerant of defiance because they are afraid that, in his or her anger, the child might commit suicide to spite them. The rare cases of suicide are mentioned often. Children appear to exploit this parental fear, and in so doing learn to manipulate other people's fears.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Parents say they must be tolerant of defiance because they are afraid that, in his or her anger, the child might commit suicide to spite them. The rare cases of suicide are mentioned often. Children appear to exploit this parental fear, and in so doing learn to manipulate other people's fears.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	Parents say they must be tolerant of defiance because they are afraid that, in his or her anger, the child might commit suicide to spite them. The rare cases of suicide are mentioned often. Children appear to exploit this parental fear, and in so doing learn to manipulate other people's fears.	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	both	parents	Evidence for		no evidence	threat,attempt,completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	no	anger	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	Parents say they must be tolerant of defiance because they are afraid that, in his or her anger, the child might commit suicide to spite them. The rare cases of suicide are mentioned often. Children appear to exploit this parental fear, and in so doing learn to manipulate other people's fears.	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
372	zgarfield	Case	Chuuk	It is expected that people will despise a person of arrogance and that there will be much hostile gossip about him. The resulting shame has driven a number of persons to suicide.	Evidence for	x	unknown	It is expected that people will despise a person of arrogance and that there will be much hostile gossip about him. The resulting shame has driven a number of persons to suicide.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	It is expected that people will despise a person of arrogance and that there will be much hostile gossip about him. The resulting shame has driven a number of persons to suicide.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	there will be much hostile gossip about him	2	x	x		unknown	arrogance	x	x	x	not stated	multiple	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
372	syme	Case	Chuuk	It is expected that people will despise a person of arrogance and that there will be much hostile gossip about him. The resulting shame has driven a number of persons to suicide.	No evidence	x	unknown	It is expected that people will despise a person of arrogance and that there will be much hostile gossip about him. The resulting shame has driven a number of persons to suicide.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	It is expected that people will despise a person of arrogance and that there will be much hostile gossip about him. The resulting shame has driven a number of persons to suicide.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	social group	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	arrogance	x	no	shame	x	x	x	not stated	unknown,rate	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence for	low	na
374	zgarfield	Case	Chuuk	When it was discovered that a young woman had been having an affair with her older sister's husband she was angrily condemned by the women of her lineage as a person of arrogance. Because of this humiliation and shame she committed suicide.	No evidence	x	adult	When it was discovered that a young woman had been having an affair with her older sister's husband she was angrily condemned by the women of her lineage as a person of arrogance. Because of this humiliation and shame she committed suicide	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	When it was discovered that a young woman had been having an affair with her older sister's husband she was angrily condemned by the women of her lineage as a person of arrogance. Because of this humiliation and shame she committed suicide	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	When it was discovered that a young woman had been having an affair with her older sister's husband she was angrily condemned by the women of her lineage as a person of arrogance. Because of this humiliation and shame she committed suicide	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	siblings	female	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		unknown	shame humiliation 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
374	syme	Case	Chuuk	When it was discovered that a young woman had been having an affair with her older sister's husband she was angrily condemned by the women of her lineage as a person of arrogance. Because of this humiliation and shame she committed suicide.	No evidence	x	young adult	When it was discovered that a young woman had been having an affair with her older sister's husband she was angrily condemned by the women of her lineage as a person of arrogance. Because of this humiliation and shame she committed suicide.	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	When it was discovered that a young woman had been having an affair with her older sister's husband she was angrily condemned by the women of her lineage as a person of arrogance. Because of this humiliation and shame she committed suicide.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	kin group	female	na	Evidence for	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	x	unknown	shame and humiliation	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	low	na
375	zgarfield	Case	Chuuk	Pwinipwinin, the island secretary, once ran inland and jumped off a tree, but followers quickly lifted him up and cared for him and he survived.	No evidence	x	adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	 Pwinipwinin, the island secretary, once ran inland and jumped off a tree, but followers quickly lifted him up and cared for him and he survived.	3	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	 Pwinipwinin, the island secretary, once ran inland and jumped off a tree, but followers quickly lifted him up and cared for him and he survived.	x	No evidence	public	no	No evidence		firsthand
375	syme	Case	Chuuk	Pwinipwinin, the island secretary, once ran inland and jumped off a tree, but followers quickly lifted him up and cared for him and he survived.	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	Pwinipwinin, the island secretary, once ran inland and jumped off a tree, but followers quickly lifted him up and cared for him and he survived.	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
376	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chuuk	As Trukese police go unarmed, it is obviously theoretically possible to evade their authority. A number of social pressures, responsiveness to which is learned from early childhood, aid in keeping order and forcing the individual to accept the punishment meted out to him by the authorities. Almost every individual, when he has engaged in an unlawful act, will first attempt to escape from the authorities. In some situations, this escape is an adequate defense, but this is never true in the case of crimes which would endanger the stability or life [p. 43] of the community if they were permitted. In the case of a child's disobedience of his parents, if he runs inland and hides, he becomes the object of so much concern that he is welcomed rather than punished when he is found. This defense mechanism, which is so effective in childhood, is carried over into adult life. The wife, who has been discovered as an adultress, runs inland to hide from her husband who would beat her. She escapes his beating, but the police will look for her, and she will be jailed. In a quarrel between spouses, the wife will sometimes run inland and hide, and the husband will go to search for her. This generally is the basis for a happy reunion. The anthropologist wondered why these people were not merely left to hide until they grew hungry enough to return. Informants said that there was a constant danger such a person might commit suicide. In the case of women, this threat is not so great, as the favorite method of suicide, climbing up palm trees and jumping off, is not open to them. The family will turn out to search for any person who runs away to hide.	No evidence	x	adult	The wife, who has been discovered as an adultress, runs inland to hide from her husband who would beat her. She escapes his beating, but the police will look for her, and she will be jailed. In a quarrel between spouses, the wife will sometimes run inland and hide, and the husband will go to search for her. This generally is the basis for a happy reunion. The anthropologist wondered why these people were not merely left to hide until they grew hungry enough to return. Informants said that there was a constant danger such a person might commit suicide.	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The wife, who has been discovered as an adultress, runs inland to hide from her husband who would beat her. She escapes his beating, but the police will look for her, and she will be jailed. In a quarrel between spouses, the wife will sometimes run inland and hide, and the husband will go to search for her. This generally is the basis for a happy reunion. The anthropologist wondered why these people were not merely left to hide until they grew hungry enough to return. Informants said that there was a constant danger such a person might commit suicide.	na	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	male	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	The family will turn out to search for any person who runs away to hide.	x	No evidence	private	no	Evidence against		firsthand
376	syme	Cultural model	Chuuk	As Trukese police go unarmed, it is obviously theoretically possible to evade their authority. A number of social pressures, responsiveness to which is learned from early childhood, aid in keeping order and forcing the individual to accept the punishment meted out to him by the authorities. Almost every individual, when he has engaged in an unlawful act, will first attempt to escape from the authorities. In some situations, this escape is an adequate defense, but this is never true in the case of crimes which would endanger the stability or life [p. 43] of the community if they were permitted. In the case of a child's disobedience of his parents, if he runs inland and hides, he becomes the object of so much concern that he is welcomed rather than punished when he is found. This defense mechanism, which is so effective in childhood, is carried over into adult life. The wife, who has been discovered as an adultress, runs inland to hide from her husband who would beat her. She escapes his beating, but the police will look for her, and she will be jailed. In a quarrel between spouses, the wife will sometimes run inland and hide, and the husband will go to search for her. This generally is the basis for a happy reunion. The anthropologist wondered why these people were not merely left to hide until they grew hungry enough to return. Informants said that there was a constant danger such a person might commit suicide. In the case of women, this threat is not so great, as the favorite method of suicide, climbing up palm trees and jumping off, is not open to them. The family will turn out to search for any person who runs away to hide.	No evidence	x	child,young adult,adult	As Trukese police go unarmed, it is obviously theoretically possible to evade their authority. A number of social pressures, responsiveness to which is learned from early childhood, aid in keeping order and forcing the individual to accept the punishment meted out to him by the authorities. Almost every individual, when he has engaged in an unlawful act, will first attempt to escape from the authorities. In some situations, this escape is an adequate defense, but this is never true in the case of crimes which would endanger the stability or life [p. 43] of the community if they were permitted. In the case of a child's disobedience of his parents, if he runs inland and hides, he becomes the object of so much concern that he is welcomed rather than punished when he is found. This defense mechanism, which is so effective in childhood, is carried over into adult life. The wife, who has been discovered as an adultress, runs inland to hide from her husband who would beat her. She escapes his beating, but the police will look for her, and she will be jailed. In a quarrel between spouses, the wife will sometimes run inland and hide, and the husband will go to search for her. This generally is the basis for a happy reunion. The anthropologist wondered why these people were not merely left to hide until they grew hungry enough to return. Informants said that there was a constant danger such a person might commit suicide. In the case of women, this threat is not so great, as the favorite method of suicide, climbing up palm trees and jumping off, is not open to them. The family will turn out to search for any person who runs away to hide.	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	As Trukese police go unarmed, it is obviously theoretically possible to evade their authority. A number of social pressures, responsiveness to which is learned from early childhood, aid in keeping order and forcing the individual to accept the punishment meted out to him by the authorities. Almost every individual, when he has engaged in an unlawful act, will first attempt to escape from the authorities. In some situations, this escape is an adequate defense, but this is never true in the case of crimes which would endanger the stability or life [p. 43] of the community if they were permitted. In the case of a child's disobedience of his parents, if he runs inland and hides, he becomes the object of so much concern that he is welcomed rather than punished when he is found. This defense mechanism, which is so effective in childhood, is carried over into adult life. The wife, who has been discovered as an adultress, runs inland to hide from her husband who would beat her. She escapes his beating, but the police will look for her, and she will be jailed. In a quarrel between spouses, the wife will sometimes run inland and hide, and the husband will go to search for her. This generally is the basis for a happy reunion. The anthropologist wondered why these people were not merely left to hide until they grew hungry enough to return. Informants said that there was a constant danger such a person might commit suicide. In the case of women, this threat is not so great, as the favorite method of suicide, climbing up palm trees and jumping off, is not open to them. The family will turn out to search for any person who runs away to hide.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping,subject_to_elements	As Trukese police go unarmed, it is obviously theoretically possible to evade their authority. A number of social pressures, responsiveness to which is learned from early childhood, aid in keeping order and forcing the individual to accept the punishment meted out to him by the authorities. Almost every individual, when he has engaged in an unlawful act, will first attempt to escape from the authorities. In some situations, this escape is an adequate defense, but this is never true in the case of crimes which would endanger the stability or life [p. 43] of the community if they were permitted. In the case of a child's disobedience of his parents, if he runs inland and hides, he becomes the object of so much concern that he is welcomed rather than punished when he is found. This defense mechanism, which is so effective in childhood, is carried over into adult life. The wife, who has been discovered as an adultress, runs inland to hide from her husband who would beat her. She escapes his beating, but the police will look for her, and she will be jailed. In a quarrel between spouses, the wife will sometimes run inland and hide, and the husband will go to search for her. This generally is the basis for a happy reunion. The anthropologist wondered why these people were not merely left to hide until they grew hungry enough to return. Informants said that there was a constant danger such a person might commit suicide. In the case of women, this threat is not so great, as the favorite method of suicide, climbing up palm trees and jumping off, is not open to them. The family will turn out to search for any person who runs away to hide.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	authorities,parents,spouse	both	na	Evidence for	more often men	x	No evidence		no evidence	threat,attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	As Trukese police go unarmed, it is obviously theoretically possible to evade their authority. A number of social pressures, responsiveness to which is learned from early childhood, aid in keeping order and forcing the individual to accept the punishment meted out to him by the authorities. Almost every individual, when he has engaged in an unlawful act, will first attempt to escape from the authorities. In some situations, this escape is an adequate defense, but this is never true in the case of crimes which would endanger the stability or life [p. 43] of the community if they were permitted. In the case of a child's disobedience of his parents, if he runs inland and hides, he becomes the object of so much concern that he is welcomed rather than punished when he is found. This defense mechanism, which is so effective in childhood, is carried over into adult life. The wife, who has been discovered as an adultress, runs inland to hide from her husband who would beat her. She escapes his beating, but the police will look for her, and she will be jailed. In a quarrel between spouses, the wife will sometimes run inland and hide, and the husband will go to search for her. This generally is the basis for a happy reunion. The anthropologist wondered why these people were not merely left to hide until they grew hungry enough to return. Informants said that there was a constant danger such a person might commit suicide. In the case of women, this threat is not so great, as the favorite method of suicide, climbing up palm trees and jumping off, is not open to them. The family will turn out to search for any person who runs away to hide.	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	low,unknown	na
378	zgarfield	Case	Chuuk	"Only one case of the suicide of thwarted lovers was in fact remembered by any of our informants; this happened several years before on a neighboring island, the couple jumping over a cliff rather than hanging themselves. This episode lent authenticity to the threat and effectiveness to the device. The first of the two recent ""incestuous"" marriages on Romonum was accomplished by the threat of suicide."	No evidence	x	young adult	 Only one case of the suicide of thwarted lovers was in fact remembered by any of our informants; this happened several years before on a neighboring island, the couple jumping over a cliff rather than hanging themselves. 	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 Only one case of the suicide of thwarted lovers was in fact remembered by any of our informants; this happened several years before on a neighboring island, the couple jumping over a cliff rather than hanging themselves. 	na	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	both		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		unknown	thwarted 	 Only one case of the suicide of thwarted lovers was in fact remembered by any of our informants; this happened several years before on a neighboring island, the couple jumping over a cliff rather than hanging themselves. 	x	x	not stated	2	x	"This episode lent authenticity to the threat and effectiveness to the device. The first of the two recent ""incestuous"" marriages on Romonum was accomplished by the threat of suicide.
"	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence		secondhand
378	syme	Case	Chuuk	"Only one case of the suicide of thwarted lovers was in fact remembered by any of our informants; this happened several years before on a neighboring island, the couple jumping over a cliff rather than hanging themselves. This episode lent authenticity to the threat and effectiveness to the device. The first of the two recent ""incestuous"" marriages on Romonum was accomplished by the threat of suicide."	No evidence	x	young adult	Only one case of the suicide of thwarted lovers was in fact remembered by any of our informants; this happened several years before on a neighboring island, the couple jumping over a cliff rather than hanging themselves. 	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Only one case of the suicide of thwarted lovers was in fact remembered by any of our informants; this happened several years before on a neighboring island, the couple jumping over a cliff rather than hanging themselves. 	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	jumping	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	kin	unknown	na	No evidence	both	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	2	x	"Only one case of the suicide of thwarted lovers was in fact remembered by any of our informants; this happened several years before on a neighboring island, the couple jumping over a cliff rather than hanging themselves. This episode lent authenticity to the threat and effectiveness to the device. The first of the two recent ""incestuous"" marriages on Romonum was accomplished by the threat of suicide."	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	secondhand
379	zgarfield	Case	Chuuk	"One man had a bitter argument with his wife, finally walked out of the house, down to the beach, and swam off into the open sea; this is a recognized means of suicide but at the same time appears to permit a maximum opportunity for rescue. In this case a ""brother"" and his wife's father went out in a canoe and after a brief struggle hauled him aboard."	No evidence	x	adult	One man had a bitter argument with his wife, finally walked out of the house, down to the beach, and swam off into the open sea; this is a recognized means of suicide but at the same time appears to permit a maximum opportunity for rescue.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	One man had a bitter argument with his wife, finally walked out of the house, down to the beach, and swam off into the open sea; this is a recognized means of suicide but at the same time appears to permit a maximum opportunity for rescue.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	female	na	No evidence	male		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	attempt,unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
379	syme	Case	Chuuk	"One man had a bitter argument with his wife, finally walked out of the house, down to the beach, and swam off into the open sea; this is a recognized means of suicide but at the same time appears to permit a maximum opportunity for rescue. In this case a ""brother"" and his wife's father went out in a canoe and after a brief struggle hauled him aboard."	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	"One man had a bitter argument with his wife, finally walked out of the house, down to the beach, and swam off into the open sea; this is a recognized means of suicide but at the same time appears to permit a maximum opportunity for rescue. In this case a ""brother"" and his wife's father went out in a canoe and after a brief struggle hauled him aboard."	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"One man had a bitter argument with his wife, finally walked out of the house, down to the beach, and swam off into the open sea; this is a recognized means of suicide but at the same time appears to permit a maximum opportunity for rescue. In this case a ""brother"" and his wife's father went out in a canoe and after a brief struggle hauled him aboard."	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	subject_to_elements,drowning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	wife	female	na	No evidence	male	x	Evidence for		no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"One man had a bitter argument with his wife, finally walked out of the house, down to the beach, and swam off into the open sea; this is a recognized means of suicide but at the same time appears to permit a maximum opportunity for rescue. In this case a ""brother"" and his wife's father went out in a canoe and after a brief struggle hauled him aboard."	x	No evidence	public	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
380	zgarfield	Case	Chuuk	"A number of years ago my elderly informant was practicing fighting techniques with several of his ""brothers"" when another ""brother"" came up and asked to join in; he was told derisively that he did not know anything about it. He left abruptly, climbed a coconut tree, and jumped off, landing on a rock and breaking an arm and leg, although he did not die."	No evidence	x	adult	"A number of years ago my elderly informant was practicing fighting techniques with several of his ""brothers"" when another ""brother"" came up and asked to join in; he was told derisively that he did not know anything about it. He left abruptly, climbed a coconut tree, and jumped off, landing on a rock and breaking an arm and leg, although he did not die."	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	"A number of years ago my elderly informant was practicing fighting techniques with several of his ""brothers"" when another ""brother"" came up and asked to join in; he was told derisively that he did not know anything about it. He left abruptly, climbed a coconut tree, and jumped off, landing on a rock and breaking an arm and leg, although he did not die."	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	siblings	male	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	 left abruptly, climbed a coconut tree, and jumped off,	4	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"He left abruptly, climbed a coconut tree, and jumped off, landing on a rock and breaking an arm and leg, although he did not die.
"	x	No evidence	public	no	Evidence against		firsthand
380	syme	Case	Chuuk	"A number of years ago my elderly informant was practicing fighting techniques with several of his ""brothers"" when another ""brother"" came up and asked to join in; he was told derisively that he did not know anything about it. He left abruptly, climbed a coconut tree, and jumped off, landing on a rock and breaking an arm and leg, although he did not die."	No evidence	x	unknown	" A number of years ago my elderly informant was practicing fighting techniques with several of his ""brothers"" when another ""brother"" came up and asked to join in; he was told derisively that he did not know anything about it. He left abruptly, climbed a coconut tree, and jumped off, landing on a rock and breaking an arm and leg, although he did not die."	rejection	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	social partners	male	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	public	no	Evidence for	low,unknown	secondhand
381	zgarfield	Case	Chuuk	In the remaining two cases [of which this is one] the man climbed a coconut tree after a violent argument with his parents; in the earlier of these episodes the would-be suicide landed on soft ground, barely missing several rocks, and was only slightly injured.	No evidence	x	adult	In the remaining two cases [of which this is one] the man climbed a coconut tree after a violent argument with his parents; in the earlier of these episodes the would-be suicide landed on soft ground, barely missing several rocks, and was only slightly injured.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	In the remaining two cases [of which this is one] the man climbed a coconut tree after a violent argument with his parents; in the earlier of these episodes the would-be suicide landed on soft ground, barely missing several rocks, and was only slightly injured.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	male		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	attempt	x		na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"landed on soft ground, barely missing several rocks, and was only slightly injured.
"	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence against		firsthand
381	syme	Case	Chuuk	In the remaining two cases [of which this is one] the man climbed a coconut tree after a violent argument with his parents; in the earlier of these episodes the would-be suicide landed on soft ground, barely missing several rocks, and was only slightly injured.	No evidence	x	young adult,unknown	In the remaining two cases [of which this is one] the man climbed a coconut tree after a violent argument with his parents; in the earlier of these episodes the would-be suicide landed on soft ground, barely missing several rocks, and was only slightly injured.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	In the remaining two cases [of which this is one] the man climbed a coconut tree after a violent argument with his parents; in the earlier of these episodes the would-be suicide landed on soft ground, barely missing several rocks, and was only slightly injured.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	parents	both	na	No evidence	male	x	Evidence for		no evidence	attempt	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	suggestion of violent behavior	5	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	In the remaining two cases [of which this is one] the man climbed a coconut tree after a violent argument with his parents; in the earlier of these episodes the would-be suicide landed on soft ground, barely missing several rocks, and was only slightly injured.	x	No evidence	public	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
382	zgarfield	Case	Chuuk	In the remaining two cases the man climbed a coconut tree after a violent argument with his parents; in the earlier of these episodes the would-be suicide landed on soft ground, barely missing several rocks, and was only slightly injured.																																No evidence				No evidence																		x																								
382	syme	Case	Chuuk	In the remaining two cases the man climbed a coconut tree after a violent argument with his parents; in the earlier of these episodes the would-be suicide landed on soft ground, barely missing several rocks, and was only slightly injured.	No evidence	x	young adult,unknown	In the remaining two cases the man climbed a coconut tree after a violent argument with his parents; in the earlier of these episodes the would-be suicide landed on soft ground, barely missing several rocks, and was only slightly injured.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	In the remaining two cases the man climbed a coconut tree after a violent argument with his parents; in the earlier of these episodes the would-be suicide landed on soft ground, barely missing several rocks, and was only slightly injured.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	male	x	Evidence for		no evidence	attempt	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	evidence of violence	5	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	In the remaining two cases the man climbed a coconut tree after a violent argument with his parents; in the earlier of these episodes the would-be suicide landed on soft ground, barely missing several rocks, and was only slightly injured.	x	No evidence	public	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
383	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chuuk	GROUP REJECTION AND SUICIDE While the lineage or other kin group provides a large degree of economic and undoubtedly psychological security for the individual, the possibility of rejection by the members of such groups must be a source of very serious anxiety. We have seen this strongly implied in the marked desire for conformance to expected patterns of behavior and the suppression of any behavior which might result in a disruptive or hostile episode. This anxiety over being rejected by a kinsman reaches its most dramatic expression in suicide. The threat of suicide is often made in other situations and is frequently effective, as in the case of the thwarted lovers described in a previous chapter; Theodore finally forced acceptance of his resignation as chief by this means also. But in the four cases actually recorded (one of them observed) where a genuine attempt was made to commit suicide, the precipitating factor was always harsh and unkind words from a close relative.	No evidence	x	unknown	We have seen this strongly implied in the marked desire for conformance to expected patterns of behavior and the suppression of any behavior which might result in a disruptive or hostile episode. This anxiety over being rejected by a kinsman reaches its most dramatic expression in suicide. The threat of suicide is often made in other situations and is frequently effective	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	We have seen this strongly implied in the marked desire for conformance to expected patterns of behavior and the suppression of any behavior which might result in a disruptive or hostile episode. This anxiety over being rejected by a kinsman reaches its most dramatic expression in suicide. The threat of suicide is often made in other situations and is frequently effective	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	This anxiety over being rejected by a kinsman reaches its most dramatic expression in suicide. The threat of suicide is often made in other situations and is frequently effective	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	kin	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	anxiety 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	no	No evidence		firsthand
383	syme	Cultural model	Chuuk	GROUP REJECTION AND SUICIDE While the lineage or other kin group provides a large degree of economic and undoubtedly psychological security for the individual, the possibility of rejection by the members of such groups must be a source of very serious anxiety. We have seen this strongly implied in the marked desire for conformance to expected patterns of behavior and the suppression of any behavior which might result in a disruptive or hostile episode. This anxiety over being rejected by a kinsman reaches its most dramatic expression in suicide. The threat of suicide is often made in other situations and is frequently effective, as in the case of the thwarted lovers described in a previous chapter; Theodore finally forced acceptance of his resignation as chief by this means also. But in the four cases actually recorded (one of them observed) where a genuine attempt was made to commit suicide, the precipitating factor was always harsh and unkind words from a close relative.	No evidence	x	unknown	GROUP REJECTION AND SUICIDE While the lineage or other kin group provides a large degree of economic and undoubtedly psychological security for the individual, the possibility of rejection by the members of such groups must be a source of very serious anxiety. We have seen this strongly implied in the marked desire for conformance to expected patterns of behavior and the suppression of any behavior which might result in a disruptive or hostile episode. This anxiety over being rejected by a kinsman reaches its most dramatic expression in suicide. The threat of suicide is often made in other situations and is frequently effective, as in the case of the thwarted lovers described in a previous chapter; Theodore finally forced acceptance of his resignation as chief by this means also. But in the four cases actually recorded (one of them observed) where a genuine attempt was made to commit suicide, the precipitating factor was always harsh and unkind words from a close relative.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	GROUP REJECTION AND SUICIDE While the lineage or other kin group provides a large degree of economic and undoubtedly psychological security for the individual, the possibility of rejection by the members of such groups must be a source of very serious anxiety. We have seen this strongly implied in the marked desire for conformance to expected patterns of behavior and the suppression of any behavior which might result in a disruptive or hostile episode. This anxiety over being rejected by a kinsman reaches its most dramatic expression in suicide. The threat of suicide is often made in other situations and is frequently effective, as in the case of the thwarted lovers described in a previous chapter; Theodore finally forced acceptance of his resignation as chief by this means also. But in the four cases actually recorded (one of them observed) where a genuine attempt was made to commit suicide, the precipitating factor was always harsh and unkind words from a close relative.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	kin	unknown	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	anxiety	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	low	na
384	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chuuk	This examination revealed quite clearly that in really difficult situations the women do indeed act more adequately than the men. For example, it is only the men who, faced with rejection by their relatives, can find no solution outside of suicide; on the other hand, in the dilemma created by the arrangement of an undesirable marriage by the parents in our cases it was only the girl who was able to launch an effective protest.	No evidence	x	adult	 it is only the men who, faced with rejection by their relatives, can find no solution outside of suicide	rejection	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 it is only the men who, faced with rejection by their relatives, can find no solution outside of suicide	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	kin	unknown	na	No evidence	male		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	rejection	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
384	syme	Cultural model	Chuuk	This examination revealed quite clearly that in really difficult situations the women do indeed act more adequately than the men. For example, it is only the men who, faced with rejection by their relatives, can find no solution outside of suicide; on the other hand, in the dilemma created by the arrangement of an undesirable marriage by the parents in our cases it was only the girl who was able to launch an effective protest.	No evidence	x	unknown	This examination revealed quite clearly that in really difficult situations the women do indeed act more adequately than the men. For example, it is only the men who, faced with rejection by their relatives, can find no solution outside of suicide...	rejection	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	kin	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence for	low	na
385	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chuuk	However, a response which could best be called diffuse does result in situations which are characterized by high hostility and high anxiety, but in which it is apparently impossible to express the aggression felt in a direct manner. Such conditions obtain primarily in the event of strong rejection and censure or discipline by members of the family group. As we have seen, at the adult level fighting is possible between close relatives, although in the cases recorded the precipitating cause appeared to be an argument or accusation rather than more direct rejection. In any event, whatever the cause, there are instances in which the individual concerned appears to feel unable to make an actual hostile act toward the other person, and it is under these conditions that suicide or attempted suicide takes place. For children, the corresponding behavior is to run away, and, as we have seen, when adults run away (especially in the event that parents refuse to recognize their desires for marriage) there is an explicit assumption that they are concurrently intending suicide, thus showing even more clearly that these two types of behavior may be considered comparable. In both cases, the behavior is diffuse: the children do not run away anywhere, they just run away; in regard to suicide, the description which appears in Chapter 8 of Andy's attempted suicide shows clearly the diffuseness of his reaction--picking up an iron bar, then a stick, beating the house (a completely ineffectual move), and finally running up the tree. But more important than the diffuseness of these reactions--and here we go beyond the tests results--this [p. 242] behavior is damaging to the individual concerned: it is essentially masochistic. That this is true of suicide is obvious; if we recollect that separation from the charmed circle of family and kinsmen produces strong anxiety in itself, and that being away, often at night, from dwellings invites the attacks of ghosts, as well as insects and rain, we realize that running away is itself anything but pleasurable. In this class of behavior, then, we see that aggression strongly felt but impossible of direct expression is in effect turned upon the self, and, ironically, the hostile and rejecting threat made by the relative is translated into actual separation and personal harm by the masochistic reaction of the thwarted and desperate individual. It is conjectural whether Sarason, had he been poised to look for it, could have found direct evidence in the projective test records which would have permitted him to predict this type of behavior. It could, however, have been predicted from the hypothesis already formulated on the basis of other direct evidence, for it is a basic premise of psychological theory that aggression strongly felt but impossible or difficult of direct expression tends to be deflected inward upon the self. It is in fact remarkable not that the Trukese exhibit this type of behavior, but that they exhibit it so comparatively infrequently.	No evidence	x	child,young adult,adult	In any event, whatever the cause, there are instances in which the individual concerned appears to feel unable to make an actual hostile act toward the other person, and it is under these conditions that suicide or attempted suicide takes place.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Such conditions obtain primarily in the event of strong rejection and censure or discipline by members of the family group. As we have seen, at the adult level fighting is possible between close relatives, although in the cases recorded the precipitating cause appeared to be an argument or accusation rather than more direct rejection. In any event, whatever the cause, there are instances in which the individual concerned appears to feel unable to make an actual hostile act toward the other person, and it is under these conditions that suicide or attempted suicide takes place.	na	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	kin	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	attempt,completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	fighting is possible 		x	x		na	high hostility and high anxiety	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	In both cases, the behavior is diffuse: the children do not run away anywhere, they just run away; in regard to suicide, the description which appears in Chapter 8 of Andy's attempted suicide shows clearly the diffuseness of his reaction--picking up an iron bar, then a stick, beating the house (a completely ineffectual move), and finally running up the tree. But more important than the diffuseness of these reactions--and here we go beyond the tests results--this [p. 242] behavior is damaging to the individual concerned: it is essentially masochistic. 	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
385	syme	Cultural model	Chuuk	However, a response which could best be called diffuse does result in situations which are characterized by high hostility and high anxiety, but in which it is apparently impossible to express the aggression felt in a direct manner. Such conditions obtain primarily in the event of strong rejection and censure or discipline by members of the family group. As we have seen, at the adult level fighting is possible between close relatives, although in the cases recorded the precipitating cause appeared to be an argument or accusation rather than more direct rejection. In any event, whatever the cause, there are instances in which the individual concerned appears to feel unable to make an actual hostile act toward the other person, and it is under these conditions that suicide or attempted suicide takes place. For children, the corresponding behavior is to run away, and, as we have seen, when adults run away (especially in the event that parents refuse to recognize their desires for marriage) there is an explicit assumption that they are concurrently intending suicide, thus showing even more clearly that these two types of behavior may be considered comparable. In both cases, the behavior is diffuse: the children do not run away anywhere, they just run away; in regard to suicide, the description which appears in Chapter 8 of Andy's attempted suicide shows clearly the diffuseness of his reaction--picking up an iron bar, then a stick, beating the house (a completely ineffectual move), and finally running up the tree. But more important than the diffuseness of these reactions--and here we go beyond the tests results--this [p. 242] behavior is damaging to the individual concerned: it is essentially masochistic. That this is true of suicide is obvious; if we recollect that separation from the charmed circle of family and kinsmen produces strong anxiety in itself, and that being away, often at night, from dwellings invites the attacks of ghosts, as well as insects and rain, we realize that running away is itself anything but pleasurable. In this class of behavior, then, we see that aggression strongly felt but impossible of direct expression is in effect turned upon the self, and, ironically, the hostile and rejecting threat made by the relative is translated into actual separation and personal harm by the masochistic reaction of the thwarted and desperate individual. It is conjectural whether Sarason, had he been poised to look for it, could have found direct evidence in the projective test records which would have permitted him to predict this type of behavior. It could, however, have been predicted from the hypothesis already formulated on the basis of other direct evidence, for it is a basic premise of psychological theory that aggression strongly felt but impossible or difficult of direct expression tends to be deflected inward upon the self. It is in fact remarkable not that the Trukese exhibit this type of behavior, but that they exhibit it so comparatively infrequently.	No evidence	x	unknown	As we have seen, at the adult level fighting is possible between close relatives, although in the cases recorded the precipitating cause appeared to be an argument or accusation rather than more direct rejection. In any event, whatever the cause, there are instances in which the individual concerned appears to feel unable to make an actual hostile act toward the other person, and it is under these conditions that suicide or attempted suicide takes place. For children, the corresponding behavior is to run away, and, as we have seen, when adults run away (especially in the event that parents refuse to recognize their desires for marriage) there is an explicit assumption that they are concurrently intending suicide, thus showing even more clearly that these two types of behavior may be considered comparable. In both cases, the behavior is diffuse: the children do not run away anywhere, they just run away; in regard to suicide, the description which appears in Chapter 8 of Andy's attempted suicide shows clearly the diffuseness of his reaction--picking up an iron bar, then a stick, beating the house (a completely ineffectual move), and finally running up the tree. But more important than the diffuseness of these reactions--and here we go beyond the tests results--this [p. 242] behavior is damaging to the individual concerned: it is essentially masochistic.	interpersonal confli,rejection	No evidence	na	Evidence for	As we have seen, at the adult level fighting is possible between close relatives, although in the cases recorded the precipitating cause appeared to be an argument or accusation rather than more direct rejection. In any event, whatever the cause, there are instances in which the individual concerned appears to feel unable to make an actual hostile act toward the other person, and it is under these conditions that suicide or attempted suicide takes place. For children, the corresponding behavior is to run away, and, as we have seen, when adults run away (especially in the event that parents refuse to recognize their desires for marriage) there is an explicit assumption that they are concurrently intending suicide, thus showing even more clearly that these two types of behavior may be considered comparable. In both cases, the behavior is diffuse: the children do not run away anywhere, they just run away; in regard to suicide, the description which appears in Chapter 8 of Andy's attempted suicide shows clearly the diffuseness of his reaction--picking up an iron bar, then a stick, beating the house (a completely ineffectual move), and finally running up the tree. But more important than the diffuseness of these reactions--and here we go beyond the tests results--this [p. 242] behavior is damaging to the individual concerned: it is essentially masochistic.	unknown	etic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping,subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult,unknown	kin	unknown	na	Evidence for	both	x	Evidence for		no evidence	threat,attempt,completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	run away into the forest 	x	x	x	x	unknown	anxiety	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	public	no	Evidence for	low	na
386	zgarfield	Case	Chuuk	"At about this time Theodore's father asked him to have his ears cut so he would be handsome when he danced. I told him I did not want to--I was afraid of the pain and I did not want to dance. Even when I was small I did not want to dance the way everybody else did and now [p. 346] I still do not know how. Besides the letter had come from the ""office"" telling me to get ready to go to school and I did not want to have my ears cut when I went to school. However, his father and the chief of Winisi (Mike's father) came into the house one night when Theodore was asleep and, holding him down, cut his ears to make the loops in the lobes which all men and women normally displayed in the past. The next morning they wanted to improve the job a little but Theodore fled to the bush and spent the night with a ""mother"" of his who was sympathetic. When he returned the next day they again said they were going to cut his ears some more and he again fled. At this they gave up and later when Theodore went to the chief and threatened to commit suicide if his lobes were not repaired the chief complied. After the repair of one ear, however, Theodore could no longer stand the pain; he was ashamed to return again to the chief and later had his other lobe repaired by a relative of his father's."	Evidence against	x	young adult	When he returned the next day they again said they were going to cut his ears some more and he again fled. At this they gave up and later when Theodore went to the chief and threatened to commit suicide if his lobes were not repaired the chief complied.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	When he returned the next day they again said they were going to cut his ears some more and he again fled. At this they gave up and later when Theodore went to the chief and threatened to commit suicide if his lobes were not repaired the chief complied.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	kin	male	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	moderate	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	" At this they gave up and later when Theodore went to the chief and threatened to commit suicide if his lobes were not repaired the chief complied. After the repair of one ear, however, Theodore could no longer stand the pain; he was ashamed to return again to the chief and later had his other lobe repaired by a relative of his father's.
"	Theodore was asleep and, holding him down, cut his ears to make the loops in the lobes which all men and women normally displayed in the past.	No evidence	public	no	Evidence against		first person
386	syme	Case	Chuuk	"At about this time Theodore's father asked him to have his ears cut so he would be handsome when he danced. I told him I did not want to--I was afraid of the pain and I did not want to dance. Even when I was small I did not want to dance the way everybody else did and now [p. 346] I still do not know how. Besides the letter had come from the ""office"" telling me to get ready to go to school and I did not want to have my ears cut when I went to school. However, his father and the chief of Winisi (Mike's father) came into the house one night when Theodore was asleep and, holding him down, cut his ears to make the loops in the lobes which all men and women normally displayed in the past. The next morning they wanted to improve the job a little but Theodore fled to the bush and spent the night with a ""mother"" of his who was sympathetic. When he returned the next day they again said they were going to cut his ears some more and he again fled. At this they gave up and later when Theodore went to the chief and threatened to commit suicide if his lobes were not repaired the chief complied. After the repair of one ear, however, Theodore could no longer stand the pain; he was ashamed to return again to the chief and later had his other lobe repaired by a relative of his father's."	No evidence	x	child,young adult,unknown	"At about this time Theodore's father asked him to have his ears cut so he would be handsome when he danced. I told him I did not want to--I was afraid of the pain and I did not want to dance. Even when I was small I did not want to dance the way everybody else did and now [p. 346] I still do not know how. Besides the letter had come from the ""office"" telling me to get ready to go to school and I did not want to have my ears cut when I went to school. However, his father and the chief of Winisi (Mike's father) came into the house one night when Theodore was asleep and, holding him down, cut his ears to make the loops in the lobes which all men and women normally displayed in the past. The next morning they wanted to improve the job a little but Theodore fled to the bush and spent the night with a ""mother"" of his who was sympathetic. When he returned the next day they again said they were going to cut his ears some more and he again fled. At this they gave up and later when Theodore went to the chief and threatened to commit suicide if his lobes were not repaired the chief complied. After the repair of one ear, however, Theodore could no longer stand the pain; he was ashamed to return again to the chief and later had his other lobe repaired by a relative of his father's."	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"At about this time Theodore's father asked him to have his ears cut so he would be handsome when he danced. I told him I did not want to--I was afraid of the pain and I did not want to dance. Even when I was small I did not want to dance the way everybody else did and now [p. 346] I still do not know how. Besides the letter had come from the ""office"" telling me to get ready to go to school and I did not want to have my ears cut when I went to school. However, his father and the chief of Winisi (Mike's father) came into the house one night when Theodore was asleep and, holding him down, cut his ears to make the loops in the lobes which all men and women normally displayed in the past. The next morning they wanted to improve the job a little but Theodore fled to the bush and spent the night with a ""mother"" of his who was sympathetic. When he returned the next day they again said they were going to cut his ears some more and he again fled. At this they gave up and later when Theodore went to the chief and threatened to commit suicide if his lobes were not repaired the chief complied. After the repair of one ear, however, Theodore could no longer stand the pain; he was ashamed to return again to the chief and later had his other lobe repaired by a relative of his father's."	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na		Evidence against	na	When he returned the next day they again said they were going to cut his ears some more and he again fled. At this they gave up and later when Theodore went to the chief and threatened to commit suicide if his lobes were not repaired the chief complied. After the repair of one ear, however, Theodore could no longer stand the pain; he was ashamed to return again to the chief and later had his other lobe repaired by a relative of his father's.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	adult,elder,unknown	father,chief	male	na	No evidence	male	chief 	No evidence		no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	he ran away	5	x		x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	At this they gave up and later when Theodore went to the chief and threatened to commit suicide if his lobes were not repaired the chief complied. After the repair of one ear, however, Theodore could no longer stand the pain; he was ashamed to return again to the chief and later had his other lobe repaired by a relative of his father's.	x	Evidence for	public	no	No evidence	average	first person
387	zgarfield	Case	Chuuk	After several years Theodore asked to be relieved of his duties as chief. He was refused but finally threatened in a public meeting to hang himself if his wish was not granted; at this he was permitted to resign and was replaced by Thomas.	No evidence	x	adult	After several years Theodore asked to be relieved of his duties as chief. He was refused but finally threatened in a public meeting to hang himself if his wish was not granted; at this he was permitted to resign and was replaced by Thomas.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	After several years Theodore asked to be relieved of his duties as chief. He was refused but finally threatened in a public meeting to hang himself if his wish was not granted; at this he was permitted to resign and was replaced by Thomas.	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	After several years Theodore asked to be relieved of his duties as chief. He was refused but finally threatened in a public meeting to hang himself if his wish was not granted; at this he was permitted to resign and was replaced by Thomas.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	After several years Theodore asked to be relieved of his duties as chief. He was refused but finally threatened in a public meeting to hang himself if his wish was not granted; at this he was permitted to resign and was replaced by Thomas.	x	No evidence	public	no	Evidence against		firsthand
387	syme	Case	Chuuk	After several years Theodore asked to be relieved of his duties as chief. He was refused but finally threatened in a public meeting to hang himself if his wish was not granted; at this he was permitted to resign and was replaced by Thomas.	No evidence	x	adult	After several years Theodore asked to be relieved of his duties as chief. He was refused but finally threatened in a public meeting to hang himself if his wish was not granted; at this he was permitted to resign and was replaced by Thomas	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	After several years Theodore asked to be relieved of his duties as chief. He was refused but finally threatened in a public meeting to hang himself if his wish was not granted; at this he was permitted to resign and was replaced by Thomas	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	hanging	After several years Theodore asked to be relieved of his duties as chief. He was refused but finally threatened in a public meeting to hang himself if his wish was not granted; at this he was permitted to resign and was replaced by Thomas	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	social group	na	na	No evidence	male	social group	No evidence		no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na		x	5	x	x	x	yes	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	After several years Theodore asked to be relieved of his duties as chief. He was refused but finally threatened in a public meeting to hang himself if his wish was not granted; at this he was permitted to resign and was replaced by Thomas	x	Evidence for	public	no	No evidence	high	first person
389	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chuuk	A study of the cases shows that the suicides, following clear culturally embedded patterns, occur as a result of trouble within the victim's family. The suicide, motivated primarily by anger or shame, is a resolution to this conflict that follows the lines of traditional withdrawal strategies for dealing with such situations.	No evidence	x	unknown	A study of the cases shows that the suicides, following clear culturally embedded patterns, occur as a result of trouble within the victim's family. The suicide, motivated primarily by anger or shame, is a resolution to this conflict that follows the lines of traditional withdrawal strategies for dealing with such situations.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	A study of the cases shows that the suicides, following clear culturally embedded patterns, occur as a result of trouble within the victim's family. The suicide, motivated primarily by anger or shame, is a resolution to this conflict that follows the lines of traditional withdrawal strategies for dealing with such situations.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	"The suicide, motivated primarily by anger or shame, is a resolution to this conflict that follows the lines of traditional withdrawal strategies for dealing with such situations.
"	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	kin	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	anger or shame	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
389	syme	Cultural model	Chuuk	A study of the cases shows that the suicides, following clear culturally embedded patterns, occur as a result of trouble within the victim's family. The suicide, motivated primarily by anger or shame, is a resolution to this conflict that follows the lines of traditional withdrawal strategies for dealing with such situations.	No evidence	x	na	A study of the cases shows that the suicides, following clear culturally embedded patterns, occur as a result of trouble within the victim's family. The suicide, motivated primarily by anger or shame, is a resolution to this conflict that follows the lines of traditional withdrawal strategies for dealing with such situations.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	A study of the cases shows that the suicides, following clear culturally embedded patterns, occur as a result of trouble within the victim's family. The suicide, motivated primarily by anger or shame, is a resolution to this conflict that follows the lines of traditional withdrawal strategies for dealing with such situations.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	kin	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	shame and anger	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	resolution	x	Evidence for	unknown	na	Evidence for	low,unknown	na
390	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chuuk	Suicide, amnemun, is not at all rare (it is said to take place more frequently in Ku than on Truk), usually by hanging, far, or going out to sea and tying stones to the feet, faubadj. Reasons: anger or love.	No evidence	x	adult	 Reasons: anger or love.	interpersonal confli,rejection	No evidence	na	No evidence	Suicide, amnemun, is not at all rare (it is said to take place more frequently in Ku than on Truk), usually by hanging, far, or going out to sea and tying stones to the feet, faubadj. Reasons: anger or love.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging,drowning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	anger, love	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
390	syme	Cultural model	Chuuk	Suicide, amnemun, is not at all rare (it is said to take place more frequently in Ku than on Truk), usually by hanging, far, or going out to sea and tying stones to the feet, faubadj. Reasons: anger or love.	No evidence	x	unknown	Reasons: anger or love.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	anger	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging,drowning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	anger	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	no	No evidence	unknown	na
391	zgarfield	Case	Chuuk	One evening during my stay on Fano Island, another young man was severely reprimanded by his mother on the suspicion that he had stolen some hoarded household funds and gambled them away. The noisy argument that ensued, which took place next door to my home on Fano, was the culmination of a long series of the mother's complaints about what she felt was her son's profligate behavior. On this occasion, after an exchange of shouting accusations, the young man stormed out of the house. Later that night he took a length of rope to the village church, and tried to hang himself from the rafters. Fortunately he was cut down by a passerby shortly after, and his life was saved.	No evidence	x	adult	The noisy argument that ensued, which took place next door to my home on Fano, was the culmination of a long series of the mother's complaints about what she felt was her son's profligate behavior. On this occasion, after an exchange of shouting accusations, the young man stormed out of the house. Later that night he took a length of rope to the village church, and tried to hang himself from the rafters.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The noisy argument that ensued, which took place next door to my home on Fano, was the culmination of a long series of the mother's complaints about what she felt was her son's profligate behavior. On this occasion, after an exchange of shouting accusations, the young man stormed out of the house. Later that night he took a length of rope to the village church, and tried to hang himself from the rafters.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	female	na	No evidence	male		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	attempt	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"Fortunately he was cut down by a passerby shortly after, and his life was saved.
"	x	No evidence	public	no	Evidence against		firsthand
391	syme	Case	Chuuk	One evening during my stay on Fano Island, another young man was severely reprimanded by his mother on the suspicion that he had stolen some hoarded household funds and gambled them away. The noisy argument that ensued, which took place next door to my home on Fano, was the culmination of a long series of the mother's complaints about what she felt was her son's profligate behavior. On this occasion, after an exchange of shouting accusations, the young man stormed out of the house. Later that night he took a length of rope to the village church, and tried to hang himself from the rafters. Fortunately he was cut down by a passerby shortly after, and his life was saved.	No evidence	x	young adult	One evening during my stay on Fano Island, another young man was severely reprimanded by his mother on the suspicion that he had stolen some hoarded household funds and gambled them away. The noisy argument that ensued, which took place next door to my home on Fano, was the culmination of a long series of the mother's complaints about what she felt was her son's profligate behavior. On this occasion, after an exchange of shouting accusations, the young man stormed out of the house. Later that night he took a length of rope to the village church, and tried to hang himself from the rafters. Fortunately he was cut down by a passerby shortly after, and his life was saved.	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	One evening during my stay on Fano Island, another young man was severely reprimanded by his mother on the suspicion that he had stolen some hoarded household funds and gambled them away. The noisy argument that ensued, which took place next door to my home on Fano, was the culmination of a long series of the mother's complaints about what she felt was her son's profligate behavior. On this occasion, after an exchange of shouting accusations, the young man stormed out of the house. Later that night he took a length of rope to the village church, and tried to hang himself from the rafters. Fortunately he was cut down by a passerby shortly after, and his life was saved.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	mother	female	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence for		no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	assoc. gambling	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	One evening during my stay on Fano Island, another young man was severely reprimanded by his mother on the suspicion that he had stolen some hoarded household funds and gambled them away. The noisy argument that ensued, which took place next door to my home on Fano, was the culmination of a long series of the mother's complaints about what she felt was her son's profligate behavior. On this occasion, after an exchange of shouting accusations, the young man stormed out of the house. Later that night he took a length of rope to the village church, and tried to hang himself from the rafters. Fortunately he was cut down by a passerby shortly after, and his life was saved.	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	firsthand
392	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chuuk	Although we cannot say being drunk causes young men to take their own lives in Truk, nevertheless, most such suicides are drunk at the time of the act. Sometimes, as well, the apparent precipitating incident leading a young man to suicide involves an issue around alcohol. For example, a suicide may have just been scolded by a close relative for drinking or for misdeeds committed while drunk or he may have been refused money with which to purchase more liquor	No evidence	x	adult	Although we cannot say being drunk causes young men to take their own lives in Truk, nevertheless, most such suicides are drunk at the time of the act. Sometimes, as well, the apparent precipitating incident leading a young man to suicide involves an issue around alcohol. For example, a suicide may have just been scolded by a close relative for drinking or for misdeeds committed while drunk or he may have been refused money with which to purchase more liquor	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Although we cannot say being drunk causes young men to take their own lives in Truk, nevertheless, most such suicides are drunk at the time of the act. Sometimes, as well, the apparent precipitating incident leading a young man to suicide involves an issue around alcohol. For example, a suicide may have just been scolded by a close relative for drinking or for misdeeds committed while drunk or he may have been refused money with which to purchase more liquor	na	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	kin	unknown	na	No evidence	na		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	Although we cannot say being drunk causes young men to take their own lives in Truk, nevertheless, most such suicides are drunk at the time of the act. Sometimes, as well, the apparent precipitating incident leading a young man to suicide involves an issue around alcohol. For example, a suicide may have just been scolded by a close relative for drinking or for misdeeds committed while drunk or he may have been refused money with which to purchase more liquor		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		na
392	syme	Cultural model	Chuuk	Although we cannot say being drunk causes young men to take their own lives in Truk, nevertheless, most such suicides are drunk at the time of the act. Sometimes, as well, the apparent precipitating incident leading a young man to suicide involves an issue around alcohol. For example, a suicide may have just been scolded by a close relative for drinking or for misdeeds committed while drunk or he may have been refused money with which to purchase more liquor	No evidence	x	young adult	Although we cannot say being drunk causes young men to take their own lives in Truk, nevertheless, most such suicides are drunk at the time of the act. Sometimes, as well, the apparent precipitating incident leading a young man to suicide involves an issue around alcohol. For example, a suicide may have just been scolded by a close relative for drinking or for misdeeds committed while drunk or he may have been refused money with which to purchase more liquor	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Although we cannot say being drunk causes young men to take their own lives in Truk, nevertheless, most such suicides are drunk at the time of the act. Sometimes, as well, the apparent precipitating incident leading a young man to suicide involves an issue around alcohol. For example, a suicide may have just been scolded by a close relative for drinking or for misdeeds committed while drunk or he may have been refused money with which to purchase more liquor		na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	Although we cannot say being drunk causes young men to take their own lives in Truk, nevertheless, most such suicides are drunk at the time of the act. Sometimes, as well, the apparent precipitating incident leading a young man to suicide involves an issue around alcohol. For example, a suicide may have just been scolded by a close relative for drinking or for misdeeds committed while drunk or he may have been refused money with which to purchase more liquor	x	x	x	drunk at time	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
393	zgarfield	Case	Chuuk	Q first came into my view out on the battleground as his older brother held him firmly by his long, shoulder-length hair and pushed him roughly ahead. Suddenly, Q broke and ran past my house back toward the poolhall yelling like crazy at everyone in general. A few moments later, Q dashed back up the valley road, still screaming shrilly, and burst into a homesite as if to cause trouble there. The next thing I knew, someone grabbed Q and threw him hard into the sloppy mud puddles in the valley road. To my astonishment the man who had forcibly reprimanded Q was none other than his father, a man in his early fifties. The father sat on top of Q and easily got the upper hand as they continued to grapple. A sober young man from the household Q had threatened to attack watched them but made no attempt to intervene. The wrestling and shouting continued for several minutes until Q's father lost his patience and began violently beating his son in the face and chest. When his father finally released him, Q leapt up instantly and charged wildly down the valley road toward my house, wailing eerily. Two young women in their early twenties, one of whom was holding a small child, were standing in the road. Q rushed straight at them but they did not move. On reaching them, Q leapt up and slapped one loudly on the back with his open hand and then fell in a heap on the ground beside them. He lay there a moment, got up, and ran off toward the poolhall once more. Within minutes his older brother and father had collared him and again began dragging him up the valley road against his will. As before, he began struggling violently with his father until once again his father threw him down and jumped on him, this time choking him briefly. Q's father then stood up and strode off, leaving him lying very still in the road, watched over by his brother. Following a five-minute interlude in these fast-breaking events while he just lay in the road, Q got up slowly, and his brother led him homeward. I learned that Q, age 22, had been drinking with some other young men and was found by his father. His father had earlier forbidden him to drink and had sought unsuccessfully to get all his sons to take the mwichen asor pledge; seeing Q drunk so angered him that he lost his temper and the result was what I observed. The next day I learned that Q had gone home and flung himself headfirst off the roof of his house, landing on his chest on a large basalt boulder. A specialist in traditional massage medicine was called in to [p. 80] treat his broken bones and hard and distended abdomen caused by internal injuries. While his family sat around crying over him, the massage specialist worked on him daily for nearly a week without any improvement. One week after his jump, Q was admitted to the hospital in critical condition. He had neither spoken nor eaten during this period. When I left Truk two and a half months later Q remained in the hospital in guarded condition.	Evidence for	x	adult	I learned that Q, age 22, had been drinking with some other young men and was found by his father. His father had earlier forbidden him to drink and had sought unsuccessfully to get all his sons to take the mwichen asor pledge; seeing Q drunk so angered him that he lost his temper and the result was what I observed. The next day I learned that Q had gone home and flung himself headfirst off the roof of his house, landing on his chest on a large basalt boulder.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	I learned that Q, age 22, had been drinking with some other young men and was found by his father. His father had earlier forbidden him to drink and had sought unsuccessfully to get all his sons to take the mwichen asor pledge; seeing Q drunk so angered him that he lost his temper and the result was what I observed. The next day I learned that Q had gone home and flung himself headfirst off the roof of his house, landing on his chest on a large basalt boulder.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	male	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	physical abuse	attempt	22	Evidence for	moderate	no evidence of ailme	I learned that Q, age 22, had been drinking with some other young men and was found by his father.	6	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	The next day I learned that Q had gone home and flung himself headfirst off the roof of his house, landing on his chest on a large basalt boulder. A specialist in traditional massage medicine was called in to [p. 80] treat his broken bones and hard and distended abdomen caused by internal injuries. While his family sat around crying over him, the massage specialist worked on him daily for nearly a week without any improvement. One week after his jump, Q was admitted to the hospital in critical condition. He had neither spoken nor eaten during this period. When I left Truk two and a half months later Q remained in the hospital in guarded condition.	As before, he began struggling violently with his father until once again his father threw him down and jumped on him, this time choking him briefly.	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence against		firsthand
393	syme	Case	Chuuk	Q first came into my view out on the battleground as his older brother held him firmly by his long, shoulder-length hair and pushed him roughly ahead. Suddenly, Q broke and ran past my house back toward the poolhall yelling like crazy at everyone in general. A few moments later, Q dashed back up the valley road, still screaming shrilly, and burst into a homesite as if to cause trouble there. The next thing I knew, someone grabbed Q and threw him hard into the sloppy mud puddles in the valley road. To my astonishment the man who had forcibly reprimanded Q was none other than his father, a man in his early fifties. The father sat on top of Q and easily got the upper hand as they continued to grapple. A sober young man from the household Q had threatened to attack watched them but made no attempt to intervene. The wrestling and shouting continued for several minutes until Q's father lost his patience and began violently beating his son in the face and chest. When his father finally released him, Q leapt up instantly and charged wildly down the valley road toward my house, wailing eerily. Two young women in their early twenties, one of whom was holding a small child, were standing in the road. Q rushed straight at them but they did not move. On reaching them, Q leapt up and slapped one loudly on the back with his open hand and then fell in a heap on the ground beside them. He lay there a moment, got up, and ran off toward the poolhall once more. Within minutes his older brother and father had collared him and again began dragging him up the valley road against his will. As before, he began struggling violently with his father until once again his father threw him down and jumped on him, this time choking him briefly. Q's father then stood up and strode off, leaving him lying very still in the road, watched over by his brother. Following a five-minute interlude in these fast-breaking events while he just lay in the road, Q got up slowly, and his brother led him homeward. I learned that Q, age 22, had been drinking with some other young men and was found by his father. His father had earlier forbidden him to drink and had sought unsuccessfully to get all his sons to take the mwichen asor pledge; seeing Q drunk so angered him that he lost his temper and the result was what I observed. The next day I learned that Q had gone home and flung himself headfirst off the roof of his house, landing on his chest on a large basalt boulder. A specialist in traditional massage medicine was called in to [p. 80] treat his broken bones and hard and distended abdomen caused by internal injuries. While his family sat around crying over him, the massage specialist worked on him daily for nearly a week without any improvement. One week after his jump, Q was admitted to the hospital in critical condition. He had neither spoken nor eaten during this period. When I left Truk two and a half months later Q remained in the hospital in guarded condition.	Evidence for	x	young adult	Q first came into my view out on the battleground as his older brother held him firmly by his long, shoulder-length hair and pushed him roughly ahead. Suddenly, Q broke and ran past my house back toward the poolhall yelling like crazy at everyone in general. A few moments later, Q dashed back up the valley road, still screaming shrilly, and burst into a homesite as if to cause trouble there. The next thing I knew, someone grabbed Q and threw him hard into the sloppy mud puddles in the valley road. To my astonishment the man who had forcibly reprimanded Q was none other than his father, a man in his early fifties. The father sat on top of Q and easily got the upper hand as they continued to grapple. A sober young man from the household Q had threatened to attack watched them but made no attempt to intervene. The wrestling and shouting continued for several minutes until Q's father lost his patience and began violently beating his son in the face and chest. When his father finally released him, Q leapt up instantly and charged wildly down the valley road toward my house, wailing eerily. Two young women in their early twenties, one of whom was holding a small child, were standing in the road. Q rushed straight at them but they did not move. On reaching them, Q leapt up and slapped one loudly on the back with his open hand and then fell in a heap on the ground beside them. He lay there a moment, got up, and ran off toward the poolhall once more. Within minutes his older brother and father had collared him and again began dragging him up the valley road against his will. As before, he began struggling violently with his father until once again his father threw him down and jumped on him, this time choking him briefly. Q's father then stood up and strode off, leaving him lying very still in the road, watched over by his brother. Following a five-minute interlude in these fast-breaking events while he just lay in the road, Q got up slowly, and his brother led him homeward. I learned that Q, age 22, had been drinking with some other young men and was found by his father. His father had earlier forbidden him to drink and had sought unsuccessfully to get all his sons to take the mwichen asor pledge; seeing Q drunk so angered him that he lost his temper and the result was what I observed. The next day I learned that Q had gone home and flung himself headfirst off the roof of his house, landing on his chest on a large basalt boulder. A specialist in traditional massage medicine was called in to [p. 80] treat his broken bones and hard and distended abdomen caused by internal injuries. While his family sat around crying over him, the massage specialist worked on him daily for nearly a week without any improvement. One week after his jump, Q was admitted to the hospital in critical condition. He had neither spoken nor eaten during this period. When I left Truk two and a half months later Q remained in the hospital in guarded condition.	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Q first came into my view out on the battleground as his older brother held him firmly by his long, shoulder-length hair and pushed him roughly ahead. Suddenly, Q broke and ran past my house back toward the poolhall yelling like crazy at everyone in general. A few moments later, Q dashed back up the valley road, still screaming shrilly, and burst into a homesite as if to cause trouble there. The next thing I knew, someone grabbed Q and threw him hard into the sloppy mud puddles in the valley road. To my astonishment the man who had forcibly reprimanded Q was none other than his father, a man in his early fifties. The father sat on top of Q and easily got the upper hand as they continued to grapple. A sober young man from the household Q had threatened to attack watched them but made no attempt to intervene. The wrestling and shouting continued for several minutes until Q's father lost his patience and began violently beating his son in the face and chest. When his father finally released him, Q leapt up instantly and charged wildly down the valley road toward my house, wailing eerily. Two young women in their early twenties, one of whom was holding a small child, were standing in the road. Q rushed straight at them but they did not move. On reaching them, Q leapt up and slapped one loudly on the back with his open hand and then fell in a heap on the ground beside them. He lay there a moment, got up, and ran off toward the poolhall once more. Within minutes his older brother and father had collared him and again began dragging him up the valley road against his will. As before, he began struggling violently with his father until once again his father threw him down and jumped on him, this time choking him briefly. Q's father then stood up and strode off, leaving him lying very still in the road, watched over by his brother. Following a five-minute interlude in these fast-breaking events while he just lay in the road, Q got up slowly, and his brother led him homeward. I learned that Q, age 22, had been drinking with some other young men and was found by his father. His father had earlier forbidden him to drink and had sought unsuccessfully to get all his sons to take the mwichen asor pledge; seeing Q drunk so angered him that he lost his temper and the result was what I observed. The next day I learned that Q had gone home and flung himself headfirst off the roof of his house, landing on his chest on a large basalt boulder. A specialist in traditional massage medicine was called in to [p. 80] treat his broken bones and hard and distended abdomen caused by internal injuries. While his family sat around crying over him, the massage specialist worked on him daily for nearly a week without any improvement. One week after his jump, Q was admitted to the hospital in critical condition. He had neither spoken nor eaten during this period. When I left Truk two and a half months later Q remained in the hospital in guarded condition.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	jumping	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	adult,elder,unknown	father	male	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence for		physical abuse	attempt,completion,unknown	22	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	alcohol use, violent behavior	6	x	x	drunk at time	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	The next day I learned that Q had gone home and flung himself headfirst off the roof of his house, landing on his chest on a large basalt boulder. A specialist in traditional massage medicine was called in to [p. 80] treat his broken bones and hard and distended abdomen caused by internal injuries. While his family sat around crying over him, the massage specialist worked on him daily for nearly a week without any improvement. One week after his jump, Q was admitted to the hospital in critical condition. He had neither spoken nor eaten during this period. When I left Truk two and a half months later Q remained in the hospital in guarded condition.	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	firsthand
394	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chuuk	"Hezel argues that neither the drinking nor the family quarrel that normally precedes these suicides can explain them. Rather he suggests that we view them as acts of vengeance ""against those who are the objects of the victim's anger."" In [p. 79] Greater Trukese Society, at least, consumption of alcohol bolsters the young man's courage to do deeds of bravery (including killing himself), but suicide itself is an act of aggression against close kinsmen who have somehow pushed the victim over the brink of despair by rejecting him in an emotional confrontation. Under such circumstances, his only way for vengeance is to kill himself and let his tormentors suffer guilt thereafter."	No evidence	x	unknown	"Rather he suggests that we view them as acts of vengeance ""against those who are the objects of the victim's anger."""	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Hezel argues that neither the drinking nor the family quarrel that normally precedes these suicides can explain them. Rather he suggests that we view them as acts of vengeance ""against those who are the objects of the victim's anger."" In [p. 79] Greater Trukese Society, at least, consumption of alcohol bolsters the young man's courage to do deeds of bravery (including killing himself), but suicide itself is an act of aggression against close kinsmen who have somehow pushed the victim over the brink of despair by rejecting him in an emotional confrontation. "	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	"Rather he suggests that we view them as acts of vengeance ""against those who are the objects of the victim's anger."""	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	kin	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	In [p. 79] Greater Trukese Society, at least, consumption of alcohol bolsters the young man's courage to do deeds of bravery (including killing himself), but suicide itself is an act of aggression against close kinsmen who have somehow pushed the victim over the brink of despair by rejecting him in an emotional confrontation. 		x	x		unknown	anger	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		na
394	syme	Cultural model	Chuuk	"Hezel argues that neither the drinking nor the family quarrel that normally precedes these suicides can explain them. Rather he suggests that we view them as acts of vengeance ""against those who are the objects of the victim's anger."" In [p. 79] Greater Trukese Society, at least, consumption of alcohol bolsters the young man's courage to do deeds of bravery (including killing himself), but suicide itself is an act of aggression against close kinsmen who have somehow pushed the victim over the brink of despair by rejecting him in an emotional confrontation. Under such circumstances, his only way for vengeance is to kill himself and let his tormentors suffer guilt thereafter."	No evidence	x	unknown	"Hezel argues that neither the drinking nor the family quarrel that normally precedes these suicides can explain them. Rather he suggests that we view them as acts of vengeance ""against those who are the objects of the victim's anger."" In [p. 79] Greater Trukese Society, at least, consumption of alcohol bolsters the young man's courage to do deeds of bravery (including killing himself), but suicide itself is an act of aggression against close kinsmen who have somehow pushed the victim over the brink of despair by rejecting him in an emotional confrontation. Under such circumstances, his only way for vengeance is to kill himself and let his tormentors suffer guilt thereafter."	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Hezel argues that neither the drinking nor the family quarrel that normally precedes these suicides can explain them. Rather he suggests that we view them as acts of vengeance ""against those who are the objects of the victim's anger."" In [p. 79] Greater Trukese Society, at least, consumption of alcohol bolsters the young man's courage to do deeds of bravery (including killing himself), but suicide itself is an act of aggression against close kinsmen who have somehow pushed the victim over the brink of despair by rejecting him in an emotional confrontation. Under such circumstances, his only way for vengeance is to kill himself and let his tormentors suffer guilt thereafter."	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	"Hezel argues that neither the drinking nor the family quarrel that normally precedes these suicides can explain them. Rather he suggests that we view them as acts of vengeance ""against those who are the objects of the victim's anger."" In [p. 79] Greater Trukese Society, at least, consumption of alcohol bolsters the young man's courage to do deeds of bravery (including killing himself), but suicide itself is an act of aggression against close kinsmen who have somehow pushed the victim over the brink of despair by rejecting him in an emotional confrontation. Under such circumstances, his only way for vengeance is to kill himself and let his tormentors suffer guilt thereafter."	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	unknown		No evidence	male	unknown	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	associated with drinking	x	x	x	drunk at time	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	Under such circumstances, his only way for vengeance is to kill himself and let his tormentors suffer guilt thereafter.	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
406	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tikopia	One type of suicidal situation is that involving loss of spouse or other close relative	No evidence	x	unknown	One type of suicidal situation is that involving loss of spouse or other close relative	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
406	syme	Cultural model	Tikopia	One type of suicidal situation is that involving loss of spouse or other close relative	No evidence	x	unknown	One type of suicidal situation is that involving loss of spouse or other close relative	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	spouse,kin	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
407	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tikopia	But while the Tikopia distinguish suicides due to insanity from ordinary suicide, they are sometimes inclined to attribute the obsessional aspect of suicide to a temporary disturbance of the balance of the mind. They may even use the same expression (vare ) as is used for insanity, although it is susceptible of a range of translation, and can also properly be interpreted in the relatively mild sense of plain silliness or stupidity. The expression is, 'His mind has been caused to be bound by the spirits.' His mental balance has been disturbed and his judgement affected.	No evidence	x	unknown	But while the Tikopia distinguish suicides due to insanity from ordinary suicide, they are sometimes inclined to attribute the obsessional aspect of suicide to a temporary disturbance of the balance of the mind. 	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	unknown	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	They may even use the same expression (vare ) as is used for insanity, although it is susceptible of a range of translation, and can also properly be interpreted in the relatively mild sense of plain silliness or stupidity. The expression is, 'His mind has been caused to be bound by the spirits.' His mental balance has been disturbed and his judgement affected.	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		na
407	syme	Cultural model	Tikopia	But while the Tikopia distinguish suicides due to insanity from ordinary suicide, they are sometimes inclined to attribute the obsessional aspect of suicide to a temporary disturbance of the balance of the mind. They may even use the same expression (vare ) as is used for insanity, although it is susceptible of a range of translation, and can also properly be interpreted in the relatively mild sense of plain silliness or stupidity. The expression is, 'His mind has been caused to be bound by the spirits.' His mental balance has been disturbed and his judgement affected.	No evidence	x	na	But while the Tikopia distinguish suicides due to insanity from ordinary suicide, they are sometimes inclined to attribute the obsessional aspect of suicide to a temporary disturbance of the balance of the mind. They may even use the same expression (vare ) as is used for insanity, although it is susceptible of a range of translation, and can also properly be interpreted in the relatively mild sense of plain silliness or stupidity. The expression is, 'His mind has been caused to be bound by the spirits.' His mental balance has been disturbed and his judgement affected.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	But while the Tikopia distinguish suicides due to insanity from ordinary suicide, they are sometimes inclined to attribute the obsessional aspect of suicide to a temporary disturbance of the balance of the mind. They may even use the same expression (vare ) as is used for insanity, although it is susceptible of a range of translation, and can also properly be interpreted in the relatively mild sense of plain silliness or stupidity. The expression is, 'His mind has been caused to be bound by the spirits.' His mental balance has been disturbed and his judgement affected.	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
408	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tikopia	...the person feels himself or herself offended and frustrated, and flounces off in a rage, often hurling back some pointed 'last words' to make the survivors regretful. As one of my informants said, 'This land is bad. Someone is angry, he goes then and hangs himself. Someone else is scolded by his family, thereupon there's a hanging.' Under the general heading of suicides from domestic discord may be placed the consequences of revolt against parental authority. If a son is struck or strongly rebuked by his father, he may go off to sea with the intention of seeking his death. Such suicide attempts by young people are part of the expected norms in Tikopia and, being feared by parents, help at times to mitigate parental discipline.	Evidence for	x	young adult	As one of my informants said, 'This land is bad. Someone is angry, he goes then and hangs himself. Someone else is scolded by his family, thereupon there's a hanging.' Under the general heading of suicides from domestic discord may be placed the consequences of revolt against parental authority. If a son is struck or strongly rebuked by his father, he may go off to sea with the intention of seeking his death. Such suicide attempts by young people are part of the expected norms in Tikopia and, being feared by parents, help at times to mitigate parental discipline.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	As one of my informants said, 'This land is bad. Someone is angry, he goes then and hangs himself. Someone else is scolded by his family, thereupon there's a hanging.' Under the general heading of suicides from domestic discord may be placed the consequences of revolt against parental authority. If a son is struck or strongly rebuked by his father, he may go off to sea with the intention of seeking his death. Such suicide attempts by young people are part of the expected norms in Tikopia and, being feared by parents, help at times to mitigate parental discipline.	fearfully	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	physical abuse	attempt	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	If a son is struck or strongly rebuked by his father, he may go off to sea with the intention of seeking his death.		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence against		firsthand
408	syme	Cultural model	Tikopia	...the person feels himself or herself offended and frustrated, and flounces off in a rage, often hurling back some pointed 'last words' to make the survivors regretful. As one of my informants said, 'This land is bad. Someone is angry, he goes then and hangs himself. Someone else is scolded by his family, thereupon there's a hanging.' Under the general heading of suicides from domestic discord may be placed the consequences of revolt against parental authority. If a son is struck or strongly rebuked by his father, he may go off to sea with the intention of seeking his death. Such suicide attempts by young people are part of the expected norms in Tikopia and, being feared by parents, help at times to mitigate parental discipline.	No evidence	x	young adult	...the person feels himself or herself offended and frustrated, and flounces off in a rage, often hurling back some pointed 'last words' to make the survivors regretful. As one of my informants said, 'This land is bad. Someone is angry, he goes then and hangs himself. Someone else is scolded by his family, thereupon there's a hanging.' Under the general heading of suicides from domestic discord may be placed the consequences of revolt against parental authority. If a son is struck or strongly rebuked by his father, he may go off to sea with the intention of seeking his death. Such suicide attempts by young people are part of the expected norms in Tikopia and, being feared by parents, help at times to mitigate parental discipline.	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	...the person feels himself or herself offended and frustrated, and flounces off in a rage, often hurling back some pointed 'last words' to make the survivors regretful. As one of my informants said, 'This land is bad. Someone is angry, he goes then and hangs himself. Someone else is scolded by his family, thereupon there's a hanging.' Under the general heading of suicides from domestic discord may be placed the consequences of revolt against parental authority. If a son is struck or strongly rebuked by his father, he may go off to sea with the intention of seeking his death. Such suicide attempts by young people are part of the expected norms in Tikopia and, being feared by parents, help at times to mitigate parental discipline.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	hanging,subject_to_elements	...the person feels himself or herself offended and frustrated, and flounces off in a rage, often hurling back some pointed 'last words' to make the survivors regretful. As one of my informants said, 'This land is bad. Someone is angry, he goes then and hangs himself. Someone else is scolded by his family, thereupon there's a hanging.' Under the general heading of suicides from domestic discord may be placed the consequences of revolt against parental authority. If a son is struck or strongly rebuked by his father, he may go off to sea with the intention of seeking his death. Such suicide attempts by young people are part of the expected norms in Tikopia and, being feared by parents, help at times to mitigate parental discipline.	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	Evidence for	both	x	Evidence for		no evidence	attempt,completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	anger	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
409	zgarfield	Case	Tikopia	Another woman, married, in fits of madness used to cast aside her skirt and go naked; after the death of her husband she became pregnant 'by other men' and finally committed suicide by swimming out to sea.	No evidence	x	adult	Another woman, married, in fits of madness used to cast aside her skirt and go naked; after the death of her husband she became pregnant 'by other men' and finally committed suicide by swimming out to sea.	death loved one,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	unknown	Evidence against	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	death of a loved one	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	Another woman, married, in fits of madness used to cast aside her skirt and go naked;	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
409	syme	Case	Tikopia	Another woman, married, in fits of madness used to cast aside her skirt and go naked; after the death of her husband she became pregnant 'by other men' and finally committed suicide by swimming out to sea.	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	Another woman, married, in fits of madness used to cast aside her skirt and go naked; after the death of her husband she became pregnant 'by other men' and finally committed suicide by swimming out to sea.	other,unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	unknown	Evidence against	drowning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	Another woman, married, in fits of madness used to cast aside her skirt and go naked; after the death of her husband she became pregnant 'by other men' and finally committed suicide by swimming out to sea.	4	x	x	pregnancy,death loved one	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	Another woman, married, in fits of madness used to cast aside her skirt and go naked; after the death of her husband she became pregnant 'by other men' and finally committed suicide by swimming out to sea.	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	unknown
410	zgarfield	Case	Tikopia	The Tikopia recognize that madness may be linked with family relationships--'it works in each generation, it does not miss'. I was given examples, including that of a family where a man's sister, brother and grandson had all committed suicide through this cause and another sister and his daughter had also had periodic attacks of madness. It was said that such families were ashamed of their affliction and therefore it was not publicly discussed.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult	"The Tikopia recognize that madness may be linked with family relationships--'it works in each generation, it does not miss'. I was given examples, including that of a family where a man's sister, brother and grandson had all committed suicide through this cause and another sister and his daughter had also had periodic attacks of madness. It was said that such families were ashamed of their affliction and therefore it was not publicly discussed.
"	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	other	unknown	unknown	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	other	No evidence	both		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	"The Tikopia recognize that madness may be linked with family relationships--'it works in each generation, it does not miss'. I was given examples, including that of a family where a man's sister, brother and grandson had all committed suicide through this cause and another sister and his daughter had also had periodic attacks of madness. It was said that such families were ashamed of their affliction and therefore it was not publicly discussed.
"	x	na	x	"The Tikopia recognize that madness may be linked with family relationships--'it works in each generation, it does not miss'. I was given examples, including that of a family where a man's sister, brother and grandson had all committed suicide through this cause and another sister and his daughter had also had periodic attacks of madness. It was said that such families were ashamed of their affliction and therefore it was not publicly discussed.
"	x	x	No evidence	na	na	Evidence against		secondhand
410	syme	Case	Tikopia	The Tikopia recognize that madness may be linked with family relationships--'it works in each generation, it does not miss'. I was given examples, including that of a family where a man's sister, brother and grandson had all committed suicide through this cause and another sister and his daughter had also had periodic attacks of madness. It was said that such families were ashamed of their affliction and therefore it was not publicly discussed.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	other	unknown	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	other	No evidence	both	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	1	x	x		unknown	x	x	The Tikopia recognize that madness may be linked with family relationships--'it works in each generation, it does not miss'. I was given examples, including that of a family where a man's sister, brother and grandson had all committed suicide through this cause and another sister and his daughter had also had periodic attacks of madness. It was said that such families were ashamed of their affliction and therefore it was not publicly discussed.	x	not stated	3,rate	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	secondhand
411	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tikopia	The Tikopia recognize that madness may be linked with family relationships--'it works in each generation, it does not miss'. I was given examples, including that of a family where a man's sister, brother and grandson had all committed suicide through this cause and another sister and his daughter had also had periodic attacks of madness. It was said that such families were ashamed of their affliction and therefore it was not publicly discussed.																																No evidence				No evidence																		x																								
411	syme	Cultural model	Tikopia	The Tikopia recognize that madness may be linked with family relationships--'it works in each generation, it does not miss'. I was given examples, including that of a family where a man's sister, brother and grandson had all committed suicide through this cause and another sister and his daughter had also had periodic attacks of madness. It was said that such families were ashamed of their affliction and therefore it was not publicly discussed.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	unknown	No evidence	both	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	The Tikopia recognize that madness may be linked with family relationships--'it works in each generation, it does not miss'. I was given examples, including that of a family where a man's sister, brother and grandson had all committed suicide through this cause and another sister and his daughter had also had periodic attacks of madness. It was said that such families were ashamed of their affliction and therefore it was not publicly discussed.	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
412	zgarfield	Case	Tikopia	The third case was the most dramatic of all. In 1929 a son of the Ariki Tafua fell ill and the chief became very disturbed about this. He had been baptized as a Christian, but this had not meant that he had abandoned all belief in the reality of his traditional gods and spirits. He regarded the illness of his son as due to the action of some malicious spirits, and seeing his son get weaker and imagining that he would die he attempted suicide by hanging (p. 138). This was a despairing act given the rationalization of shaming his traditional gods for not looking after his family. When his suicide attempt had been prevented (and it was never quite clear how far the chief had hoped it would be prevented) he addressed his gods, reproaching them for wanting to take the life of a young man while he himself, an old man, still remained. According to Tikopia belief, in response to this reproach the gods allowed his son to recover, but made the chief himself ill. From this illness he was in turn in Tikopia eyes saved by the effort of his peers, the Ariki Kafika and Ariki Taumako, both pagan chiefs, who visited him and laid hands on him. In the course of the rites which accompanied these proceedings the Ariki Tafua, who was a spirit medium, twice entered the trance state, and in spirit form gave utterance to reassuring statements. But the day before he became ill he had also had a trance and in spirit form spoke to the assembled company, saying 'Who is the man who told the chief that he should hang himself?' The spirit appeared to be very angry. His eldest son and another senior man crawled across the floor of the house to him, and pressed their noses one to each of his knees in token of obeisance. Then they and all the others present in the house assured the spirit that he was mistaken, that it had been the idea of the chief himself alone that he should commit suicide, that no one else had advised him to do so. At last the spirit appeared to be appeased and the trance ended.	Evidence for	x	adult	He regarded the illness of his son as due to the action of some malicious spirits, and seeing his son get weaker and imagining that he would die he attempted suicide by hanging (p. 138). This was a despairing act given the rationalization of shaming his traditional gods for not looking after his family. When his suicide attempt had been prevented (and it was never quite clear how far the chief had hoped it would be prevented) he addressed his gods, reproaching them for wanting to take the life of a young man while he himself, an old man, still remained.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	7	x	This was a despairing act given the rationalization of shaming his traditional gods for not looking after his family. When his suicide attempt had been prevented (and it was never quite clear how far the chief had hoped it would be prevented) he addressed his gods, reproaching them for wanting to take the life of a young man while he himself, an old man, still remained. 		yes	despair	This was a despairing act given the rationalization of shaming his traditional gods for not looking after his family. When his suicide attempt had been prevented (and it was never quite clear how far the chief had hoped it would be prevented) he addressed his gods, reproaching them for wanting to take the life of a young man while he himself, an old man, still remained. 	x	x	not stated	1	x	According to Tikopia belief, in response to this reproach the gods allowed his son to recover, but made the chief himself ill. From this illness he was in turn in Tikopia eyes saved by the effort of his peers, the Ariki Kafika and Ariki Taumako, both pagan chiefs, who visited him and laid hands on him. I	x	No evidence	unknown	yes	Evidence against		firsthand
412	syme	Case	Tikopia	The third case was the most dramatic of all. In 1929 a son of the Ariki Tafua fell ill and the chief became very disturbed about this. He had been baptized as a Christian, but this had not meant that he had abandoned all belief in the reality of his traditional gods and spirits. He regarded the illness of his son as due to the action of some malicious spirits, and seeing his son get weaker and imagining that he would die he attempted suicide by hanging (p. 138). This was a despairing act given the rationalization of shaming his traditional gods for not looking after his family. When his suicide attempt had been prevented (and it was never quite clear how far the chief had hoped it would be prevented) he addressed his gods, reproaching them for wanting to take the life of a young man while he himself, an old man, still remained. According to Tikopia belief, in response to this reproach the gods allowed his son to recover, but made the chief himself ill. From this illness he was in turn in Tikopia eyes saved by the effort of his peers, the Ariki Kafika and Ariki Taumako, both pagan chiefs, who visited him and laid hands on him. In the course of the rites which accompanied these proceedings the Ariki Tafua, who was a spirit medium, twice entered the trance state, and in spirit form gave utterance to reassuring statements. But the day before he became ill he had also had a trance and in spirit form spoke to the assembled company, saying 'Who is the man who told the chief that he should hang himself?' The spirit appeared to be very angry. His eldest son and another senior man crawled across the floor of the house to him, and pressed their noses one to each of his knees in token of obeisance. Then they and all the others present in the house assured the spirit that he was mistaken, that it had been the idea of the chief himself alone that he should commit suicide, that no one else had advised him to do so. At last the spirit appeared to be appeased and the trance ended.	No evidence	x	elderly	The third case was the most dramatic of all. In 1929 a son of the Ariki Tafua fell ill and the chief became very disturbed about this. He had been baptized as a Christian, but this had not meant that he had abandoned all belief in the reality of his traditional gods and spirits. He regarded the illness of his son as due to the action of some malicious spirits, and seeing his son get weaker and imagining that he would die he attempted suicide by hanging (p. 138). This was a despairing act given the rationalization of shaming his traditional gods for not looking after his family. When his suicide attempt had been prevented (and it was never quite clear how far the chief had hoped it would be prevented) he addressed his gods, reproaching them for wanting to take the life of a young man while he himself, an old man, still remained. According to Tikopia belief, in response to this reproach the gods allowed his son to recover, but made the chief himself ill. From this illness he was in turn in Tikopia eyes saved by the effort of his peers, the Ariki Kafika and Ariki Taumako, both pagan chiefs, who visited him and laid hands on him. In the course of the rites which accompanied these proceedings the Ariki Tafua, who was a spirit medium, twice entered the trance state, and in spirit form gave utterance to reassuring statements. But the day before he became ill he had also had a trance and in spirit form spoke to the assembled company, saying 'Who is the man who told the chief that he should hang himself?' The spirit appeared to be very angry. His eldest son and another senior man crawled across the floor of the house to him, and pressed their noses one to each of his knees in token of obeisance. Then they and all the others present in the house assured the spirit that he was mistaken, that it had been the idea of the chief himself alone that he should commit suicide, that no one else had advised him to do so. At last the spirit appeared to be appeased and the trance ended.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	In his ordinary state he and others spoke of his attempt at suicide as his own conscious measure to compel the gods to save his son.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male	gods	Evidence against		traum to a loved one	attempt	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	trance state	6	x	x	trance state	yes	despair	despair	x	x	not stated	1	x	rescued	x	No evidence	public	no	No evidence	high	firsthand
413	zgarfield	Case	Tikopia	Yet sometimes, despite the inhibiting factors, the tensions in a person did seem to lead him to an obsessional suicidal act. A woman I had known in 1952 swam off to sea some years later; because, it was said, she had a quarrel with her family.	No evidence	x	adult	Yet sometimes, despite the inhibiting factors, the tensions in a person did seem to lead him to an obsessional suicidal act. A woman I had known in 1952 swam off to sea some years later; because, it was said, she had a quarrel with her family	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Yet sometimes, despite the inhibiting factors, the tensions in a person did seem to lead him to an obsessional suicidal act. A woman I had known in 1952 swam off to sea some years later; because, it was said, she had a quarrel with her family	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	Yet sometimes, despite the inhibiting factors, the tensions in a person did seem to lead him to an obsessional suicidal act. A woman I had known in 1952 swam off to sea some years later; because, it was said, she had a quarrel with her family	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	kin	unknown	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		unknown
413	syme	Case	Tikopia	Yet sometimes, despite the inhibiting factors, the tensions in a person did seem to lead him to an obsessional suicidal act. A woman I had known in 1952 swam off to sea some years later; because, it was said, she had a quarrel with her family.	No evidence	x	unknown	A woman I had known in 1952 swam off to sea some years later; because, it was said, she had a quarrel with her family.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	A woman I had known in 1952 swam off to sea some years later; because, it was said, she had a quarrel with her family.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	drowning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	kin	unknown	na	Evidence for	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence for	unknown	secondhand
414	zgarfield	Case	Tikopia	In another case a man told his wife that he was going fishing, but in reality, so it was interpreted, was intending to go to his death--not in a canoe but by swimming. The usual searching fleet went out to find him; but was unsuccessful. The story told in the latter case illustrates one important aspect of Tikopia belief--the reality conveyed in dreams. It also reveals the complexity of Tikopia attitudes towards the suicidal act. When the searching fleet was out, it was said that a shark was observed going up and down along the side of one of the canoes. Not unnaturally the crew interpreted this as a sign that sharks were in the vicinity and that the lost man had been eaten, so turned for shore. Later, however, the canoe owner had a dream in which the dead man appeared to him and made known his fate. The shark had not been there as his slayer; it was a protector and was intending to show the crew that the man was still alive, and to lead the canoe to him. But seeing that the crew [p. 361] refused to follow, the shark turned back and did eat the man. In the dream, the dead man bewailed his fate in a song: Turn to me your stern Turn to me your stern But the fish went in the path Of the ocean. My swimming, my long swimming In the ocean wastes My body nuzzled by the grey birds (albatross?) This story confirms the view expressed earlier (Chapter 5) that for Tikopia the suicidal act may be a risk venture, in which the would-be suicide at some point wishes for rescue, but may have weighted the chances too heavily against himself to survive. Even if in this case the fact may have not been so, the dream illustrates the Tikopia concept of suicide mentality. The story also illustrates one important continuing aspect of Tikopia belief--that dreams express an external reality and not a reality purely internal to the dreamer. This external reality still commonly includes what may be termed spirit entities. (A full commentary on modern Tikopia dream beliefs must be reserved for separate publication.)		x	adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements,drowning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	The usual searching fleet went out to find him; but was unsuccessful. The story told in the latter case illustrates one important aspect of Tikopia belief--the reality conveyed in dreams. It also reveals the complexity of Tikopia attitudes towards the suicidal act. When the searching fleet was out, it was said that a shark was observed going up and down along the side of one of the canoes. Not unnaturally the crew interpreted this as a sign that sharks were in the vicinity and that the lost man had been eaten, so turned for shore.	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		unknown
414	syme	Case	Tikopia	In another case a man told his wife that he was going fishing, but in reality, so it was interpreted, was intending to go to his death--not in a canoe but by swimming. The usual searching fleet went out to find him; but was unsuccessful. The story told in the latter case illustrates one important aspect of Tikopia belief--the reality conveyed in dreams. It also reveals the complexity of Tikopia attitudes towards the suicidal act. When the searching fleet was out, it was said that a shark was observed going up and down along the side of one of the canoes. Not unnaturally the crew interpreted this as a sign that sharks were in the vicinity and that the lost man had been eaten, so turned for shore. Later, however, the canoe owner had a dream in which the dead man appeared to him and made known his fate. The shark had not been there as his slayer; it was a protector and was intending to show the crew that the man was still alive, and to lead the canoe to him. But seeing that the crew [p. 361] refused to follow, the shark turned back and did eat the man. In the dream, the dead man bewailed his fate in a song: Turn to me your stern Turn to me your stern But the fish went in the path Of the ocean. My swimming, my long swimming In the ocean wastes My body nuzzled by the grey birds (albatross?) This story confirms the view expressed earlier (Chapter 5) that for Tikopia the suicidal act may be a risk venture, in which the would-be suicide at some point wishes for rescue, but may have weighted the chances too heavily against himself to survive. Even if in this case the fact may have not been so, the dream illustrates the Tikopia concept of suicide mentality. The story also illustrates one important continuing aspect of Tikopia belief--that dreams express an external reality and not a reality purely internal to the dreamer. This external reality still commonly includes what may be termed spirit entities. (A full commentary on modern Tikopia dream beliefs must be reserved for separate publication.)	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	1	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	xx	unknown	x	x		x	not stated	1	x	 In another case a man told his wife that he was going fishing, but in reality, so it was interpreted, was intending to go to his death--not in a canoe but by swimming. The usual searching fleet went out to find him; but was unsuccessful. The story told in the latter case illustrates one important aspect of Tikopia belief--the reality conveyed in dreams. It also reveals the complexity of Tikopia attitudes towards the suicidal act. When the searching fleet was out, it was said that a shark was observed going up and down along the side of one of the canoes. Not unnaturally the crew interpreted this as a sign that sharks were in the vicinity and that the lost man had been eaten, so turned for shore. Later, however, the canoe owner had a dream in which the dead man appeared to him and made known his fate. The shark had not been there as his slayer; it was a protector and was intending to show the crew that the man was still alive, and to lead the canoe to him. But seeing that the crew [p. 361] refused to follow, the shark turned back and did eat the man. In the dream, the dead man bewailed his fate in a song: Turn to me your stern Turn to me your stern But the fish went in the path Of the ocean. My swimming, my long swimming In the ocean wastes My body nuzzled by the grey birds (albatross?) This story confirms the view expressed earlier (Chapter 5) that for Tikopia the suicidal act may be a risk venture, in which the would-be suicide at some point wishes for rescue, but may have weighted the chances too heavily against himself to survive. Even if in this case the fact may have not been so, the dream illustrates the Tikopia concept of suicide mentality. The story also illustrates one important continuing aspect of Tikopia belief--that dreams express an external reality and not a reality purely internal to the dreamer. This external reality still commonly includes what may be termed spirit entities. (A full commentary on modern Tikopia dream beliefs must be reserved for separate publication.)	x	No evidence	private	no	No evidence	unknown	secondhand
415	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tikopia	A young man deeply shamed or angry with his relatives, and meditating desertion, could bide his time and slip abroad, out of their reach [instead of taking a canoe out into the ocean]. It was held that the idea of suicidal behaviour still occurred--a man might have no thought of living, be angry and think only of death. This story confirms the view expressed earlier (Chapter 5) that for Tikopia the suicidal act may be a risk venture, in which the would-be suicide at some point wishes for rescue, but may have weighted the chances too heavily against himself to survive.	No evidence	x	unknown	A young man deeply shamed or angry with his relatives, and meditating desertion, could bide his time and slip abroad, out of their reach [instead of taking a canoe out into the ocean]. It was held that the idea of suicidal behaviour still occurred--a man might have no thought of living, be angry and think only of death. This story confirms the view expressed earlier (Chapter 5) that for Tikopia the suicidal act may be a risk venture, in which the would-be suicide at some point wishes for rescue, but may have weighted the chances too heavily against himself to survive.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	A young man deeply shamed or angry with his relatives, and meditating desertion, could bide his time and slip abroad, out of their reach [instead of taking a canoe out into the ocean]. It was held that the idea of suicidal behaviour still occurred--a man might have no thought of living, be angry and think only of death. 	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	kin	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	shamed or angry 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	This story confirms the view expressed earlier (Chapter 5) that for Tikopia the suicidal act may be a risk venture, in which the would-be suicide at some point wishes for rescue, but may have weighted the chances too heavily against himself to survive.	x	No evidence	public	no	Evidence against		na
415	syme	Cultural model	Tikopia	A young man deeply shamed or angry with his relatives, and meditating desertion, could bide his time and slip abroad, out of their reach [instead of taking a canoe out into the ocean]. It was held that the idea of suicidal behaviour still occurred--a man might have no thought of living, be angry and think only of death. This story confirms the view expressed earlier (Chapter 5) that for Tikopia the suicidal act may be a risk venture, in which the would-be suicide at some point wishes for rescue, but may have weighted the chances too heavily against himself to survive.	No evidence	x	unknown	A young man deeply shamed or angry with his relatives, and meditating desertion, could bide his time and slip abroad, out of their reach [instead of taking a canoe out into the ocean]. It was held that the idea of suicidal behaviour still occurred--a man might have no thought of living, be angry and think only of death. This story confirms the view expressed earlier (Chapter 5) that for Tikopia the suicidal act may be a risk venture, in which the would-be suicide at some point wishes for rescue, but may have weighted the chances too heavily against himself to survive.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	A young man deeply shamed or angry with his relatives, and meditating desertion, could bide his time and slip abroad, out of their reach [instead of taking a canoe out into the ocean]. It was held that the idea of suicidal behaviour still occurred--a man might have no thought of living, be angry and think only of death. This story confirms the view expressed earlier (Chapter 5) that for Tikopia the suicidal act may be a risk venture, in which the would-be suicide at some point wishes for rescue, but may have weighted the chances too heavily against himself to survive.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	This story confirms the view expressed earlier (Chapter 5) that for Tikopia the suicidal act may be a risk venture, in which the would-be suicide at some point wishes for rescue, but may have weighted the chances too heavily against himself to survive.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	na	kin	unknown	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	Evidence for		no evidence	attempt,completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	unable to contemplate the future	x	unknown	anger, shame	A young man deeply shamed or angry with his relatives, and meditating desertion, could bide his time and slip abroad, out of their reach [instead of taking a canoe out into the ocean]. It was held that the idea of suicidal behaviour still occurred--a man might have no thought of living, be angry and think only of death.	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
416	zgarfield	Case	Tikopia	"At this time the chief of Nga Faea was Tiako, son of Pu Forau (the chief who is buried at Takarito, and whose grave until recent times was venerated in the annual rite of worship there).40 Tiako was evidently sensitive to the pressure being put upon him and his people--though whether by the attitude which the spells implied or by more concrete threats cannot be said. The Ariki Tafua in 1929 said that he acted through fear; others, that he acted through shame. Whatever be the reason, tradition states that he determined to abandon the land with all his followers and put off to sea. This is the traditional Tikopia method of committing suicide, carried out by a group of people, either in protest against what they consider to be an unfair accusation, or when guilty of some offence against a man of rank. Normally, when passions have not been aroused too highly, the suicide voyage is stopped by a formal procedure on the part of some other member of the community. In this case, however, resentment and landgreed appear to have been paramount, and no hand was raised to stay Nga Faea, who went off in the grand manner. The Ariki said to his people, ""Let us all go to the ocean [p. 139] indeed that the soil of Namo shall stand"". (Tou o tatou ki moana ia ke tu ko a kere o Namo .) By this he is said to have meant, ""If we stay on land we shall die; if we go to sea we shall die; let us go then and abandon our territory to the people of Tafua."" Accordingly, he and the majority of his followers took to sea. The Ariki Tafua said they numbered a hundred, and if they exceeded Nga Ariki in numbers and there was pressure of the latter on the land, Nga Faea must have been more numerous. The women and children were in the canoes; many of the men swam alongside. According to one account, the canoes were decorated with barkcloth streamers, as if it were a gala ritual occasion. Wailing, the folk of Nga Faea abandoned the land, some of them supporting their chief on the deck of his vessel, holding him aloft in their arms, in the gesture of supreme respect which the Tikopia pay to men of rank. (According to Pa Torokinga, this support was given to the chief after his canoe sank.) So they went from sight, to be lost forever from the knowledge of men. Closely associated with the chiefly lineage of Nga Faea were the lineages of the ritual elders. One of these was Kaiutu, an offshoot of the chiefly lineage; others were the lineages of Raromei, Rangiripo, Maraekaro and Vokisa. All the last-named, together with members of other lineages whose titles have been forgotten (it is said) went off to sea with their chief. The leader of Kaiutu, a man named Perurua, was atoa , noted for his strength and daring. He and about 30 or 40 other people stayed on shore. Some resisted the invaders."	Evidence for	x	young adult,adult	Tiako was evidently sensitive to the pressure being put upon him and his people--though whether by the attitude which the spells implied or by more concrete threats cannot be said. The Ariki Tafua in 1929 said that he acted through fear; others, that he acted through shame. Whatever be the reason, tradition states that he determined to abandon the land with all his followers and put off to sea. 	interpersonal confli,military defeat	No evidence	na	Evidence for	At this time the chief of Nga Faea was Tiako, son of Pu Forau (the chief who is buried at Takarito, and whose grave until recent times was venerated in the annual rite of worship there).40 Tiako was evidently sensitive to the pressure being put upon him and his people--though whether by the attitude which the spells implied or by more concrete threats cannot be said. 	approvingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	The Ariki Tafua in 1929 said that he acted through fear; others, that he acted through shame. Whatever be the reason, tradition states that he determined to abandon the land with all his followers and put off to sea. T	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	both		No evidence	Evidence for	war	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		unknown	fear	The Ariki Tafua in 1929 said that he acted through fear; others, that he acted through shame. Whatever be the reason, tradition states that he determined to abandon the land with all his followers and put off to sea. T	x	x	not stated	100+	x	"The Ariki said to his people, ""Let us all go to the ocean [p. 139] indeed that the soil of Namo shall stand"". (Tou o tatou ki moana ia ke tu ko a kere o Namo .) By this he is said to have meant, ""If we stay on land we shall die; if we go to sea we shall die; let us go then and abandon our territory to the people of Tafua."" Accordingly, he and the majority of his followers took to sea. The Ariki Tafua said they numbered a hundred, and if they exceeded Nga Ariki in numbers and there was pressure of the latter on the land, Nga Faea must have been more numerous. The women and children were in the canoes; many of the men swam alongside. .The leader of Kaiutu, a man named Perurua, was atoa , noted for his strength and daring. He and about 30 or 40 other people stayed on shore. Some resisted the invaders."	x	Evidence for	public	yes	Evidence against		firsthand
416	syme	Case	Tikopia	"At this time the chief of Nga Faea was Tiako, son of Pu Forau (the chief who is buried at Takarito, and whose grave until recent times was venerated in the annual rite of worship there).40 Tiako was evidently sensitive to the pressure being put upon him and his people--though whether by the attitude which the spells implied or by more concrete threats cannot be said. The Ariki Tafua in 1929 said that he acted through fear; others, that he acted through shame. Whatever be the reason, tradition states that he determined to abandon the land with all his followers and put off to sea. This is the traditional Tikopia method of committing suicide, carried out by a group of people, either in protest against what they consider to be an unfair accusation, or when guilty of some offence against a man of rank. Normally, when passions have not been aroused too highly, the suicide voyage is stopped by a formal procedure on the part of some other member of the community. In this case, however, resentment and landgreed appear to have been paramount, and no hand was raised to stay Nga Faea, who went off in the grand manner. The Ariki said to his people, ""Let us all go to the ocean [p. 139] indeed that the soil of Namo shall stand"". (Tou o tatou ki moana ia ke tu ko a kere o Namo .) By this he is said to have meant, ""If we stay on land we shall die; if we go to sea we shall die; let us go then and abandon our territory to the people of Tafua."" Accordingly, he and the majority of his followers took to sea. The Ariki Tafua said they numbered a hundred, and if they exceeded Nga Ariki in numbers and there was pressure of the latter on the land, Nga Faea must have been more numerous. The women and children were in the canoes; many of the men swam alongside. According to one account, the canoes were decorated with barkcloth streamers, as if it were a gala ritual occasion. Wailing, the folk of Nga Faea abandoned the land, some of them supporting their chief on the deck of his vessel, holding him aloft in their arms, in the gesture of supreme respect which the Tikopia pay to men of rank. (According to Pa Torokinga, this support was given to the chief after his canoe sank.) So they went from sight, to be lost forever from the knowledge of men. Closely associated with the chiefly lineage of Nga Faea were the lineages of the ritual elders. One of these was Kaiutu, an offshoot of the chiefly lineage; others were the lineages of Raromei, Rangiripo, Maraekaro and Vokisa. All the last-named, together with members of other lineages whose titles have been forgotten (it is said) went off to sea with their chief. The leader of Kaiutu, a man named Perurua, was atoa , noted for his strength and daring. He and about 30 or 40 other people stayed on shore. Some resisted the invaders."	No evidence	x	child,young adult,adult,elderly	invaders	group conflict,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	At this time the chief of Nga Faea was Tiako, son of Pu Forau (the chief who is buried at Takarito, and whose grave until recent times was venerated in the annual rite of worship there).40 Tiako was evidently sensitive to the pressure being put upon him and his people--though whether by the attitude which the spells implied or by more concrete threats cannot be said. The Ariki Tafua in 1929 said that he acted through fear; others, that he acted through shame. Whatever be the reason, tradition states that he determined to abandon the land with all his followers and put off to sea... He and about 30 or 40 other people stayed on shore. Some resisted the invaders.	approvingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	subject_to_elements	"""If we stay on land we shall die; if we go to sea we shall die; let us go then and abandon our territory to the people of Tafua."""	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	outgroup	na	na	No evidence	both	x	Evidence against		war	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	na	fear, shame	"""If we stay on land we shall die; if we go to sea we shall die; let us go then and abandon our territory to the people of Tafua."""	x	x	not stated	100+	x	"At this time the chief of Nga Faea was Tiako, son of Pu Forau (the chief who is buried at Takarito, and whose grave until recent times was venerated in the annual rite of worship there).40 Tiako was evidently sensitive to the pressure being put upon him and his people--though whether by the attitude which the spells implied or by more concrete threats cannot be said. The Ariki Tafua in 1929 said that he acted through fear; others, that he acted through shame. Whatever be the reason, tradition states that he determined to abandon the land with all his followers and put off to sea. This is the traditional Tikopia method of committing suicide, carried out by a group of people, either in protest against what they consider to be an unfair accusation, or when guilty of some offence against a man of rank. Normally, when passions have not been aroused too highly, the suicide voyage is stopped by a formal procedure on the part of some other member of the community. In this case, however, resentment and landgreed appear to have been paramount, and no hand was raised to stay Nga Faea, who went off in the grand manner. The Ariki said to his people, ""Let us all go to the ocean [p. 139] indeed that the soil of Namo shall stand"". (Tou o tatou ki moana ia ke tu ko a kere o Namo .) By this he is said to have meant, ""If we stay on land we shall die; if we go to sea we shall die; let us go then and abandon our territory to the people of Tafua."" Accordingly, he and the majority of his followers took to sea. The Ariki Tafua said they numbered a hundred, and if they exceeded Nga Ariki in numbers and there was pressure of the latter on the land, Nga Faea must have been more numerous. The women and children were in the canoes; many of the men swam alongside. According to one account, the canoes were decorated with barkcloth streamers, as if it were a gala ritual occasion. Wailing, the folk of Nga Faea abandoned the land, some of them supporting their chief on the deck of his vessel, holding him aloft in their arms, in the gesture of supreme respect which the Tikopia pay to men of rank. (According to Pa Torokinga, this support was given to the chief after his canoe sank.) So they went from sight, to be lost forever from the knowledge of men. Closely associated with the chiefly lineage of Nga Faea were the lineages of the ritual elders. One of these was Kaiutu, an offshoot of the chiefly lineage; others were the lineages of Raromei, Rangiripo, Maraekaro and Vokisa. All the last-named, together with members of other lineages whose titles have been forgotten (it is said) went off to sea with their chief. The leader of Kaiutu, a man named Perurua, was atoa , noted for his strength and daring. He and about 30 or 40 other people stayed on shore. Some resisted the invaders."	x	Evidence for	public	no	Evidence against	na	hearsay
417	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tikopia	This is the traditional Tikopia method of committing suicide, carried out by a group of people, either in protest against what they consider to be an unfair accusation, or when guilty of some offence against a man of rank. Normally, when passions have not been aroused too highly, the suicide voyage is stopped by a formal procedure on the part of some other member of the community.	No evidence	x	unknown	This is the traditional Tikopia method of committing suicide, carried out by a group of people, either in protest against what they consider to be an unfair accusation, or when guilty of some offence against a man of rank.	accus_commit wrongdo,loss social position	No evidence	na	Evidence for	This is the traditional Tikopia method of committing suicide, carried out by a group of people, either in protest against what they consider to be an unfair accusation, or when guilty of some offence against a man of rank.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	This is the traditional Tikopia method of committing suicide, carried out by a group of people, either in protest against what they consider to be an unfair accusation, or when guilty of some offence against a man of rank.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	?	x	 Normally, when passions have not been aroused too highly, the suicide voyage is stopped by a formal procedure on the part of some other member of the community.	x	No evidence	public	no	Evidence against		firsthand
417	syme	Cultural model	Tikopia	This is the traditional Tikopia method of committing suicide, carried out by a group of people, either in protest against what they consider to be an unfair accusation, or when guilty of some offence against a man of rank. Normally, when passions have not been aroused too highly, the suicide voyage is stopped by a formal procedure on the part of some other member of the community.	No evidence	x	unknown	This is the traditional Tikopia method of committing suicide, carried out by a group of people, either in protest against what they consider to be an unfair accusation, or when guilty of some offence against a man of rank. Normally, when passions have not been aroused too highly, the suicide voyage is stopped by a formal procedure on the part of some other member of the community.	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	This is the traditional Tikopia method of committing suicide, carried out by a group of people, either in protest against what they consider to be an unfair accusation, or when guilty of some offence against a man of rank. Normally, when passions have not been aroused too highly, the suicide voyage is stopped by a formal procedure on the part of some other member of the community.	approvingly,unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	group	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence against	low,unknown	na
418	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tikopia	Suicide-voyages of rage and shame probably continued to occur as occasion arose.	No evidence	x	unknown	 Suicide-voyages of rage and shame probably continued to occur as occasion arose.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	 Suicide-voyages of rage and shame probably continued to occur as occasion arose.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	unknown	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	rage and shame 	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		na
418	syme	Cultural model	Tikopia	Suicide-voyages of rage and shame probably continued to occur as occasion arose.	No evidence	x	unknown	Suicide-voyages of rage and shame probably continued to occur as occasion arose.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Suicide-voyages of rage and shame probably continued to occur as occasion arose.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	rage, shame	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
419	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tikopia	Stories of the past told how in their hunger people ate the bark of trees, and in their despair put off in canoes to sea to face quick death in the ocean rather than a lingering death on shore.	Evidence for	x	unknown	 Stories of the past told how in their hunger people ate the bark of trees, and in their despair put off in canoes to sea to face quick death in the ocean rather than a lingering death on shore.	resource loss	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	hunger		x	x		na	despair	 Stories of the past told how in their hunger people ate the bark of trees, and in their despair put off in canoes to sea to face quick death in the ocean rather than a lingering death on shore.	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	Evidence for	public	no	No evidence		na
419	syme	Cultural model	Tikopia	Stories of the past told how in their hunger people ate the bark of trees, and in their despair put off in canoes to sea to face quick death in the ocean rather than a lingering death on shore.	Evidence for	x	unknown	Stories of the past told how in their hunger people ate the bark of trees, and in their despair put off in canoes to sea to face quick death in the ocean rather than a lingering death on shore.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	Stories of the past told how in their hunger people ate the bark of trees, and in their despair put off in canoes to sea to face quick death in the ocean rather than a lingering death on shore.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		natural disaster	completion	x	No evidence	severe	other	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	despair	Stories of the past told how in their hunger people ate the bark of trees, and in their despair put off in canoes to sea to face quick death in the ocean rather than a lingering death on shore.	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	hunger and malnutrition	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	hearsay
420	zgarfield	Case	Tikopia	"In coping with the difficulties of the famine in manpower terms Tikopia initiative was not uniformly directed towards increasing productivity. There was such gloomy talk, some of it concerned with suicide risk voyages. One man of apparently equable temperament announced his determination to seek recruitment: but should he be barred, either by Government order or by his chief, he said he wouldforau --go on a suicide voyage. 'As it were I who sit here, I look on my children who are starving. I get my canoe ready to go. If a chief comes to block me I say ""Shall I stay here to steal from your orchards? Or are you prepared to feed me?"" Then he is silent and lets me go....' This brings out the way in which the issues are conceptualized by the Tikopia in terms of choices: a man chooses between starvation on land and death at sea; his choice initially disallowed, he puts the situation in term of a further choice by his chief. Note that the resolution is seen in a social compulsion--the chief, embarrassed at not having the wherewithal to feed his clansman, is compelled by shame to retract his ban on the suicids voyage. This conversation is patterned in type; it is the ideal mode. But the situation thus described is not merely as academic one. Voyages of this kind are said to have occurred in past famines. (Later the man quoted above did recruit.)"	Evidence for	x	adult	" One man of apparently equable temperament announced his determination to seek recruitment: but should he be barred, either by Government order or by his chief, he said he wouldforau --go on a suicide voyage. 'As it were I who sit here, I look on my children who are starving. I get my canoe ready to go. If a chief comes to block me I say ""Shall I stay here to steal from your orchards? Or are you prepared to feed me?"" Then he is silent and lets me go....'"	resource loss	No evidence	na	Evidence for	" One man of apparently equable temperament announced his determination to seek recruitment: but should he be barred, either by Government order or by his chief, he said he wouldforau --go on a suicide voyage. 'As it were I who sit here, I look on my children who are starving. I get my canoe ready to go. If a chief comes to block me I say ""Shall I stay here to steal from your orchards? Or are you prepared to feed me?"" Then he is silent and lets me go....'"	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	social superior	male	na	No evidence	male		Evidence against	Evidence for	no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		yes	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"Note that the resolution is seen in a social compulsion--the chief, embarrassed at not having the wherewithal to feed his clansman, is compelled by shame to retract his ban on the suicids voyage. This conversation is patterned in type; it is the ideal mode. But the situation thus described is not merely as academic one. Voyages of this kind are said to have occurred in past famines. (Later the man quoted above did recruit.)
"	x	Evidence for	public	unknown	Evidence against		firsthand
420	syme	Case	Tikopia	"In coping with the difficulties of the famine in manpower terms Tikopia initiative was not uniformly directed towards increasing productivity. There was such gloomy talk, some of it concerned with suicide risk voyages. One man of apparently equable temperament announced his determination to seek recruitment: but should he be barred, either by Government order or by his chief, he said he wouldforau --go on a suicide voyage. 'As it were I who sit here, I look on my children who are starving. I get my canoe ready to go. If a chief comes to block me I say ""Shall I stay here to steal from your orchards? Or are you prepared to feed me?"" Then he is silent and lets me go....' This brings out the way in which the issues are conceptualized by the Tikopia in terms of choices: a man chooses between starvation on land and death at sea; his choice initially disallowed, he puts the situation in term of a further choice by his chief. Note that the resolution is seen in a social compulsion--the chief, embarrassed at not having the wherewithal to feed his clansman, is compelled by shame to retract his ban on the suicids voyage. This conversation is patterned in type; it is the ideal mode. But the situation thus described is not merely as academic one. Voyages of this kind are said to have occurred in past famines. (Later the man quoted above did recruit.)"	Evidence for	x	adult,unknown	" In coping with the difficulties of the famine in manpower terms Tikopia initiative was not uniformly directed towards increasing productivity. There was such gloomy talk, some of it concerned with suicide risk voyages. One man of apparently equable temperament announced his determination to seek recruitment: but should he be barred, either by Government order or by his chief, he said he wouldforau --go on a suicide voyage. 'As it were I who sit here, I look on my children who are starving. I get my canoe ready to go. If a chief comes to block me I say ""Shall I stay here to steal from your orchards? Or are you prepared to feed me?"" Then he is silent and lets me go....' This brings out the way in which the issues are conceptualized by the Tikopia in terms of choices: a man chooses between starvation on land and death at sea; his choice initially disallowed, he puts the situation in term of a further choice by his chief. Note that the resolution is seen in a social compulsion--the chief, embarrassed at not having the wherewithal to feed his clansman, is compelled by shame to retract his ban on the suicids voyage. This conversation is patterned in type; it is the ideal mode. But the situation thus described is not merely as academic one. Voyages of this kind are said to have occurred in past famines. (Later the man quoted above did recruit.)"	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	subject_to_elements	" In coping with the difficulties of the famine in manpower terms Tikopia initiative was not uniformly directed towards increasing productivity. There was such gloomy talk, some of it concerned with suicide risk voyages. One man of apparently equable temperament announced his determination to seek recruitment: but should he be barred, either by Government order or by his chief, he said he wouldforau --go on a suicide voyage. 'As it were I who sit here, I look on my children who are starving. I get my canoe ready to go. If a chief comes to block me I say ""Shall I stay here to steal from your orchards? Or are you prepared to feed me?"" Then he is silent and lets me go....' This brings out the way in which the issues are conceptualized by the Tikopia in terms of choices: a man chooses between starvation on land and death at sea; his choice initially disallowed, he puts the situation in term of a further choice by his chief. Note that the resolution is seen in a social compulsion--the chief, embarrassed at not having the wherewithal to feed his clansman, is compelled by shame to retract his ban on the suicids voyage."	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male	x	No evidence		natural disaster,traum to a loved one	threat,plan,ideation	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	unclear suicide	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	starvation	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence	average,unknown	unknown
421	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tikopia	A person who had committed some very grave offence or who had taken umbrage at some offence thought to have been committed against him, placed himself beyond reach of the community by evasion. If he was fortunate, this evasion would lead him to another land. If not, he perished at sea. But his canoe flight also [p. 310] served the purpose of expiation. If he was brought back by a searching party, or indeed if he returned of his own free will, his offence was not further brought up against him. He made his apology to his chief in particular, and by implication to the community at large, and was once more accepted as a fully functioning member of the society.	No evidence	x	adult	A person who had committed some very grave offence or who had taken umbrage at some offence thought to have been committed against him, placed himself beyond reach of the community by evasion. If he was fortunate, this evasion would lead him to another land. If not, he perished at sea. But his canoe flight also [p. 310] served the purpose of expiation.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	A person who had committed some very grave offence or who had taken umbrage at some offence thought to have been committed against him, placed himself beyond reach of the community by evasion. If he was fortunate, this evasion would lead him to another land. If not, he perished at sea. But his canoe flight also [p. 310] served the purpose of expiation.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"If he was brought back by a searching party, or indeed if he returned of his own free will, his offence was not further brought up against him. He made his apology to his chief in particular, and by implication to the community at large, and was once more accepted as a fully functioning member of the society.
"	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence		na
421	syme	Cultural model	Tikopia	A person who had committed some very grave offence or who had taken umbrage at some offence thought to have been committed against him, placed himself beyond reach of the community by evasion. If he was fortunate, this evasion would lead him to another land. If not, he perished at sea. But his canoe flight also [p. 310] served the purpose of expiation. If he was brought back by a searching party, or indeed if he returned of his own free will, his offence was not further brought up against him. He made his apology to his chief in particular, and by implication to the community at large, and was once more accepted as a fully functioning member of the society.	No evidence	x	unknown	A person who had committed some very grave offence or who had taken umbrage at some offence thought to have been committed against him, placed himself beyond reach of the community by evasion. If he was fortunate, this evasion would lead him to another land. If not, he perished at sea. But his canoe flight also [p. 310] served the purpose of expiation. If he was brought back by a searching party, or indeed if he returned of his own free will, his offence was not further brought up against him. He made his apology to his chief in particular, and by implication to the community at large, and was once more accepted as a fully functioning member of the society.	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	A person who had committed some very grave offence or who had taken umbrage at some offence thought to have been committed against him, placed himself beyond reach of the community by evasion. If he was fortunate, this evasion would lead him to another land. If not, he perished at sea. But his canoe flight also [p. 310] served the purpose of expiation. If he was brought back by a searching party, or indeed if he returned of his own free will, his offence was not further brought up against him. He made his apology to his chief in particular, and by implication to the community at large, and was once more accepted as a fully functioning member of the society.	ambivalently	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	A person who had committed some very grave offence or who had taken umbrage at some offence thought to have been committed against him, placed himself beyond reach of the community by evasion. If he was fortunate, this evasion would lead him to another land. If not, he perished at sea. But his canoe flight also [p. 310] served the purpose of expiation. If he was brought back by a searching party, or indeed if he returned of his own free will, his offence was not further brought up against him. He made his apology to his chief in particular, and by implication to the community at large, and was once more accepted as a fully functioning member of the society.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	attempt,completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	run away or suicide	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	A person who had committed some very grave offence or who had taken umbrage at some offence thought to have been committed against him, placed himself beyond reach of the community by evasion. If he was fortunate, this evasion would lead him to another land. If not, he perished at sea. But his canoe flight also [p. 310] served the purpose of expiation. If he was brought back by a searching party, or indeed if he returned of his own free will, his offence was not further brought up against him. He made his apology to his chief in particular, and by implication to the community at large, and was once more accepted as a fully functioning member of the society.	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	low,unknown	na
422	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tikopia	But at a time of crisis a man of rank may allow it to be inferred that he intends toforau , to take his canoe and voyage away, to die or survive as the fates decide. This implication is to be distinguished from an announcement of intention, but grades into it. The result is a rumor which spreads through the community, often in exaggerated form. The final outcome of this is to mobilize a force of public opinion against the rumored action. Other men of rank will see that the suicide voyage is not undertaken (4, p. 184). And on the other hand, action is usually taken to correct the position to which the man of rank originally took objection.	No evidence	x	adult	But at a time of crisis a man of rank may allow it to be inferred that he intends toforau , to take his canoe and voyage away, to die or survive as the fates decide. This implication is to be distinguished from an announcement of intention, but grades into it.	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	But at a time of crisis a man of rank may allow it to be inferred that he intends toforau , to take his canoe and voyage away, to die or survive as the fates decide.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"The final outcome of this is to mobilize a force of public opinion against the rumored action. Other men of rank will see that the suicide voyage is not undertaken (4, p. 184). And on the other hand, action is usually taken to correct the position to which the man of rank originally took objection.
"	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence		na
422	syme	Cultural model	Tikopia	But at a time of crisis a man of rank may allow it to be inferred that he intends toforau , to take his canoe and voyage away, to die or survive as the fates decide. This implication is to be distinguished from an announcement of intention, but grades into it. The result is a rumor which spreads through the community, often in exaggerated form. The final outcome of this is to mobilize a force of public opinion against the rumored action. Other men of rank will see that the suicide voyage is not undertaken (4, p. 184). And on the other hand, action is usually taken to correct the position to which the man of rank originally took objection.	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	But at a time of crisis a man of rank may allow it to be inferred that he intends toforau , to take his canoe and voyage away, to die or survive as the fates decide. This implication is to be distinguished from an announcement of intention, but grades into it. The result is a rumor which spreads through the community, often in exaggerated form. The final outcome of this is to mobilize a force of public opinion against the rumored action. Other men of rank will see that the suicide voyage is not undertaken (4, p. 184). And on the other hand, action is usually taken to correct the position to which the man of rank originally took objection.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	But at a time of crisis a man of rank may allow it to be inferred that he intends toforau , to take his canoe and voyage away, to die or survive as the fates decide. This implication is to be distinguished from an announcement of intention, but grades into it. The result is a rumor which spreads through the community, often in exaggerated form. The final outcome of this is to mobilize a force of public opinion against the rumored action. Other men of rank will see that the suicide voyage is not undertaken (4, p. 184). And on the other hand, action is usually taken to correct the position to which the man of rank originally took objection.	pityingly,unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		unknown	unknown	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	But at a time of crisis a man of rank may allow it to be inferred that he intends toforau , to take his canoe and voyage away, to die or survive as the fates decide. This implication is to be distinguished from an announcement of intention, but grades into it. The result is a rumor which spreads through the community, often in exaggerated form. The final outcome of this is to mobilize a force of public opinion against the rumored action. Other men of rank will see that the suicide voyage is not undertaken (4, p. 184). And on the other hand, action is usually taken to correct the position to which the man of rank originally took objection.	x	Evidence for	public	no	Evidence for	low,unknown	na
423	zgarfield	Case	Tikopia	The father's sister of one of my main informants took her life in this fashion--afraid of men, as another informant put it. This is the customary method employed by Tikopia women in committing suicide. But as usual with Tikopia explanations, there is an esoteric as well as an exoteric reason given.	No evidence	x	adult	The father's sister of one of my main informants took her life in this fashion--afraid of men, as another informant put it. This is the customary method employed by Tikopia women in committing suicide. But as usual with Tikopia explanations, there is an esoteric as well as an exoteric reason given.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	The father's sister of one of my main informants took her life in this fashion--afraid of men, as another informant put it. This is the customary method employed by Tikopia women in committing suicide. But as usual with Tikopia explanations, there is an esoteric as well as an exoteric reason given.	na	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	unknown	male	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
423	syme	Case	Tikopia	The father's sister of one of my main informants took her life in this fashion--afraid of men, as another informant put it. This is the customary method employed by Tikopia women in committing suicide. But as usual with Tikopia explanations, there is an esoteric as well as an exoteric reason given.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,unknown	The father's sister of one of my main informants took her life in this fashion--afraid of men, as another informant put it. This is the customary method employed by Tikopia women in committing suicide. But as usual with Tikopia explanations, there is an esoteric as well as an exoteric reason given.	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	secondhand
424	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tikopia	"Thefafine ariki of Marinoa [chiefly female], I was told, does not marry, neither does she take lovers. ""She lives properly."" And when she gets older, it is the custom for her to swim out to sea and commit suicide. Why? ""Her mind is like this: shall she live thus always? She will stop and grow old, and there will be no son to look after her. ""So she commits suicide."	No evidence	x	elderly	"Thefafine ariki of Marinoa [chiefly female], I was told, does not marry, neither does she take lovers. ""She lives properly."" And when she gets older, it is the custom for her to swim out to sea and commit suicide. Why? ""Her mind is like this: shall she live thus always? She will stop and grow old, and there will be no son to look after her. ""So she commits suicide."	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	"Thefafine ariki of Marinoa [chiefly female], I was told, does not marry, neither does she take lovers. ""She lives properly."" And when she gets older, it is the custom for her to swim out to sea and commit suicide. Why? ""Her mind is like this: shall she live thus always? She will stop and grow old, and there will be no son to look after her. ""So she commits suicide."	approvingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	"She will stop and grow old, and there will be no son to look after her. ""So she commits suicide.
"	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	Evidence for	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	"She will stop and grow old, and there will be no son to look after her. ""So she commits suicide.
"	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		na
424	syme	Cultural model	Tikopia	"Thefafine ariki of Marinoa [chiefly female], I was told, does not marry, neither does she take lovers. ""She lives properly."" And when she gets older, it is the custom for her to swim out to sea and commit suicide. Why? ""Her mind is like this: shall she live thus always? She will stop and grow old, and there will be no son to look after her. ""So she commits suicide."	No evidence	x	elderly	"Thefafine ariki of Marinoa [chiefly female], I was told, does not marry, neither does she take lovers. ""She lives properly."" And when she gets older, it is the custom for her to swim out to sea and commit suicide. Why? ""Her mind is like this: shall she live thus always? She will stop and grow old, and there will be no son to look after her. ""So she commits suicide."	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly,unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	yes	Evidence for	high	na
425	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tikopia	Sometimes, with hope of life still strong, the man endeavours by sailing or by paddling to preserve himself, with the faint prospect of eventually reaching another island. As a rule, however, the natives say, he abandons himself to his fate, and either allows himself to drift on the ocean till he perishes of thirst, or is overwhelmed by the waves, or takes the initiative and slips overboard to meet his death in the maw of a hungry shark. To be eaten by these monsters of the deep is in fact regarded by the Tikopia as the normal conclusion to being set adrift in this manner. In suicide the same procedure is followed. Voluntary self destruction and the punishment of crime are intimately connected, since when a serious offence has been committed the guilty person often anticipates the sentence by setting off in a canoe on his own initiative. It is worthy of remark that in this case the vessel is often not his own. Women commit suicide or, in rare instances, suffer punishment by swimming out to sea. Unlike the men they do not go out to meet their fate in a canoe: such is not the custom. On this account their end is more speedy, though hardly more certain: sooner or later, the natives think, the shark gets his prey.	No evidence	x	adult	To be eaten by these monsters of the deep is in fact regarded by the Tikopia as the normal conclusion to being set adrift in this manner. In suicide the same procedure is followed. Voluntary self destruction and the punishment of crime are intimately connected, since when a serious offence has been committed the guilty person often anticipates the sentence by setting off in a canoe on his own initiative. It is worthy of remark that in this case the vessel is often not his own.	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	To be eaten by these monsters of the deep is in fact regarded by the Tikopia as the normal conclusion to being set adrift in this manner. In suicide the same procedure is followed. Voluntary self destruction and the punishment of crime are intimately connected, since when a serious offence has been committed the guilty person often anticipates the sentence by setting off in a canoe on his own initiative. It is worthy of remark that in this case the vessel is often not his own.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	both		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	It is worthy of remark that in this case the vessel is often not his own. Women commit suicide or, in rare instances, suffer punishment by swimming out to sea. Unlike the men they do not go out to meet their fate in a canoe: such is not the custom. On this account their end is more speedy, though hardly more certain: sooner or later, the natives think, the shark gets his prey.	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		na
425	syme	Cultural model	Tikopia	Sometimes, with hope of life still strong, the man endeavours by sailing or by paddling to preserve himself, with the faint prospect of eventually reaching another island. As a rule, however, the natives say, he abandons himself to his fate, and either allows himself to drift on the ocean till he perishes of thirst, or is overwhelmed by the waves, or takes the initiative and slips overboard to meet his death in the maw of a hungry shark. To be eaten by these monsters of the deep is in fact regarded by the Tikopia as the normal conclusion to being set adrift in this manner. In suicide the same procedure is followed. Voluntary self destruction and the punishment of crime are intimately connected, since when a serious offence has been committed the guilty person often anticipates the sentence by setting off in a canoe on his own initiative. It is worthy of remark that in this case the vessel is often not his own. Women commit suicide or, in rare instances, suffer punishment by swimming out to sea. Unlike the men they do not go out to meet their fate in a canoe: such is not the custom. On this account their end is more speedy, though hardly more certain: sooner or later, the natives think, the shark gets his prey.	No evidence	x	unknown	Sometimes, with hope of life still strong, the man endeavours by sailing or by paddling to preserve himself, with the faint prospect of eventually reaching another island. As a rule, however, the natives say, he abandons himself to his fate, and either allows himself to drift on the ocean till he perishes of thirst, or is overwhelmed by the waves, or takes the initiative and slips overboard to meet his death in the maw of a hungry shark. To be eaten by these monsters of the deep is in fact regarded by the Tikopia as the normal conclusion to being set adrift in this manner. In suicide the same procedure is followed. Voluntary self destruction and the punishment of crime are intimately connected, since when a serious offence has been committed the guilty person often anticipates the sentence by setting off in a canoe on his own initiative. It is worthy of remark that in this case the vessel is often not his own. Women commit suicide or, in rare instances, suffer punishment by swimming out to sea. Unlike the men they do not go out to meet their fate in a canoe: such is not the custom. On this account their end is more speedy, though hardly more certain: sooner or later, the natives think, the shark gets his prey.	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	Voluntary self destruction and the punishment of crime are intimately connected, since when a serious offence has been committed the guilty person often anticipates the sentence by setting off in a canoe on his own initiative. 	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	social group	na	na	Evidence for	more often men	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	low,unknown	na
426	zgarfield	Case	Tikopia	"A few years ago a dramatic incident occurred which illustrates both the sacredness of the rite and the dread which is entertained of the atua by the people at large. The bearers were carrying the stone down to the beach for its customary cleansing when they noticed that someone - probably a child - had deposited excrement in the path. Since this would have been defiling to the atua they turned aside from the sacred track, and went along by the house of Niukapu which stood near. In due course they returned, and the kava was prepared. As the ritual was being performed the chief and the people were astounded to hear a succession of whoops from the direction of the shore. ""Iefu!"" ""Iefu!"" ""Iefu!"" Several men at once seized their axes and ran down in anger, to find out who it was who had dared to violate the sanctity of the occasion in this challenging fashion. They discovered the culprit, Pa Niukapu, outside his house. Raising their axes to strike, they lashed him with their tongues. To their abuse and reproaches the offender answered not a word but sat with bowed head, and wailed. At last he said, ""Launch my canon; I am going to sea"" - a notification that he would commit suicide in expiation of his offence. Then the Ariki Kafika had sympathy for him since in times long past the ancestor of Pa Niukapu, a famous navigator, had perished at sea in the same canoe as his nephew, the ancestor of the Ariki Kafika. The traditional saying is ""Te kerekere o te Ariki, ne poi ma ko ia"" ""The earth of the chief, who went with him,"" meaning that he supported the chief by his presence in his last moments, and accompanied him to his ocean grave. This ancestral link still counts for much, and was responsible for the lenient atitude of the Ariki on this occasion. Instead of confirming the intention of suicide he said ""No! we are angry because you have whooped like this; but there is no need to go out to sea"". Finally after more talk the party returned and finished their rites. Later, after the group dispersed, the Ariki and Pa Porima sat on at Takarito. Then came Pa Koroatu the brother of Pa Niukapu, and Vaitere, his son, with gifts of bananas and breadfruit to the chief. Crawling to him along the ground, they pressed their noses to his knee, as the custom is, in token of their humility. ""The one fool in Tikopia,"" said Pa Koroatu of his brother. The apology and the present were accepted by the Ariki, and the incident was tacitly buried."	No evidence	x	adult	"As the ritual was being performed the chief and the people were astounded to hear a succession of whoops from the direction of the shore. ""Iefu!"" ""Iefu!"" ""Iefu!"" Several men at once seized their axes and ran down in anger, to find out who it was who had dared to violate the sanctity of the occasion in this challenging fashion. They discovered the culprit, Pa Niukapu, outside his house. Raising their axes to strike, they lashed him with their tongues. To their abuse and reproaches the offender answered not a word but sat with bowed head, and wailed. At last he said, ""Launch my canon; I am going to sea"" - a notification that he would commit suicide in expiation of his offence"	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"As the ritual was being performed the chief and the people were astounded to hear a succession of whoops from the direction of the shore. ""Iefu!"" ""Iefu!"" ""Iefu!"" Several men at once seized their axes and ran down in anger, to find out who it was who had dared to violate the sanctity of the occasion in this challenging fashion. They discovered the culprit, Pa Niukapu, outside his house. Raising their axes to strike, they lashed him with their tongues. To their abuse and reproaches the offender answered not a word but sat with bowed head, and wailed. At last he said, ""Launch my canon; I am going to sea"" - a notification that he would commit suicide in expiation of his offence"	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	"At last he said, ""Launch my canon; I am going to sea"" - a notification that he would commit suicide in expiation of his offence. "	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"Then the Ariki Kafika had sympathy for him since in times long past the ancestor of Pa Niukapu, a famous navigator, had perished at sea in the same canoe as his nephew, the ancestor of the Ariki Kafika. The traditional saying is ""Te kerekere o te Ariki, ne poi ma ko ia"" ""The earth of the chief, who went with him,"" meaning that he supported the chief by his presence in his last moments, and accompanied him to his ocean grave. This ancestral link still counts for much, and was responsible for the lenient atitude of the Ariki on this occasion. Instead of confirming the intention of suicide he said ""No! we are angry because you have whooped like this; but there is no need to go out to sea"""	x	No evidence	public	yes	Evidence against		firsthand
426	syme	Case	Tikopia	"A few years ago a dramatic incident occurred which illustrates both the sacredness of the rite and the dread which is entertained of the atua by the people at large. The bearers were carrying the stone down to the beach for its customary cleansing when they noticed that someone - probably a child - had deposited excrement in the path. Since this would have been defiling to the atua they turned aside from the sacred track, and went along by the house of Niukapu which stood near. In due course they returned, and the kava was prepared. As the ritual was being performed the chief and the people were astounded to hear a succession of whoops from the direction of the shore. ""Iefu!"" ""Iefu!"" ""Iefu!"" Several men at once seized their axes and ran down in anger, to find out who it was who had dared to violate the sanctity of the occasion in this challenging fashion. They discovered the culprit, Pa Niukapu, outside his house. Raising their axes to strike, they lashed him with their tongues. To their abuse and reproaches the offender answered not a word but sat with bowed head, and wailed. At last he said, ""Launch my canon; I am going to sea"" - a notification that he would commit suicide in expiation of his offence. Then the Ariki Kafika had sympathy for him since in times long past the ancestor of Pa Niukapu, a famous navigator, had perished at sea in the same canoe as his nephew, the ancestor of the Ariki Kafika. The traditional saying is ""Te kerekere o te Ariki, ne poi ma ko ia"" ""The earth of the chief, who went with him,"" meaning that he supported the chief by his presence in his last moments, and accompanied him to his ocean grave. This ancestral link still counts for much, and was responsible for the lenient atitude of the Ariki on this occasion. Instead of confirming the intention of suicide he said ""No! we are angry because you have whooped like this; but there is no need to go out to sea"". Finally after more talk the party returned and finished their rites. Later, after the group dispersed, the Ariki and Pa Porima sat on at Takarito. Then came Pa Koroatu the brother of Pa Niukapu, and Vaitere, his son, with gifts of bananas and breadfruit to the chief. Crawling to him along the ground, they pressed their noses to his knee, as the custom is, in token of their humility. ""The one fool in Tikopia,"" said Pa Koroatu of his brother. The apology and the present were accepted by the Ariki, and the incident was tacitly buried."	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	"A few years ago a dramatic incident occurred which illustrates both the sacredness of the rite and the dread which is entertained of the atua by the people at large. The bearers were carrying the stone down to the beach for its customary cleansing when they noticed that someone - probably a child - had deposited excrement in the path. Since this would have been defiling to the atua they turned aside from the sacred track, and went along by the house of Niukapu which stood near. In due course they returned, and the kava was prepared. As the ritual was being performed the chief and the people were astounded to hear a succession of whoops from the direction of the shore. ""Iefu!"" ""Iefu!"" ""Iefu!"" Several men at once seized their axes and ran down in anger, to find out who it was who had dared to violate the sanctity of the occasion in this challenging fashion. They discovered the culprit, Pa Niukapu, outside his house. Raising their axes to strike, they lashed him with their tongues. To their abuse and reproaches the offender answered not a word but sat with bowed head, and wailed. At last he said, ""Launch my canon; I am going to sea"" - a notification that he would commit suicide in expiation of his offence. Then the Ariki Kafika had sympathy for him since in times long past the ancestor of Pa Niukapu, a famous navigator, had perished at sea in the same canoe as his nephew, the ancestor of the Ariki Kafika. The traditional saying is ""Te kerekere o te Ariki, ne poi ma ko ia"" ""The earth of the chief, who went with him,"" meaning that he supported the chief by his presence in his last moments, and accompanied him to his ocean grave. This ancestral link still counts for much, and was responsible for the lenient atitude of the Ariki on this occasion. Instead of confirming the intention of suicide he said ""No! we are angry because you have whooped like this; but there is no need to go out to sea"". Finally after more talk the party returned and finished their rites. Later, after the group dispersed, the Ariki and Pa Porima sat on at Takarito. Then came Pa Koroatu the brother of Pa Niukapu, and Vaitere, his son, with gifts of bananas and breadfruit to the chief. Crawling to him along the ground, they pressed their noses to his knee, as the custom is, in token of their humility. ""The one fool in Tikopia,"" said Pa Koroatu of his brother. The apology and the present were accepted by the Ariki, and the incident was tacitly buried."	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"A few years ago a dramatic incident occurred which illustrates both the sacredness of the rite and the dread which is entertained of the atua by the people at large. The bearers were carrying the stone down to the beach for its customary cleansing when they noticed that someone - probably a child - had deposited excrement in the path. Since this would have been defiling to the atua they turned aside from the sacred track, and went along by the house of Niukapu which stood near. In due course they returned, and the kava was prepared. As the ritual was being performed the chief and the people were astounded to hear a succession of whoops from the direction of the shore. ""Iefu!"" ""Iefu!"" ""Iefu!"" Several men at once seized their axes and ran down in anger, to find out who it was who had dared to violate the sanctity of the occasion in this challenging fashion. They discovered the culprit, Pa Niukapu, outside his house. Raising their axes to strike, they lashed him with their tongues. To their abuse and reproaches the offender answered not a word but sat with bowed head, and wailed. At last he said, ""Launch my canon; I am going to sea"" - a notification that he would commit suicide in expiation of his offence. Then the Ariki Kafika had sympathy for him since in times long past the ancestor of Pa Niukapu, a famous navigator, had perished at sea in the same canoe as his nephew, the ancestor of the Ariki Kafika. The traditional saying is ""Te kerekere o te Ariki, ne poi ma ko ia"" ""The earth of the chief, who went with him,"" meaning that he supported the chief by his presence in his last moments, and accompanied him to his ocean grave. This ancestral link still counts for much, and was responsible for the lenient atitude of the Ariki on this occasion. Instead of confirming the intention of suicide he said ""No! we are angry because you have whooped like this; but there is no need to go out to sea"". Finally after more talk the party returned and finished their rites. Later, after the group dispersed, the Ariki and Pa Porima sat on at Takarito. Then came Pa Koroatu the brother of Pa Niukapu, and Vaitere, his son, with gifts of bananas and breadfruit to the chief. Crawling to him along the ground, they pressed their noses to his knee, as the custom is, in token of their humility. ""The one fool in Tikopia,"" said Pa Koroatu of his brother. The apology and the present were accepted by the Ariki, and the incident was tacitly buried."	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	social partners	male	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x	x	unknown	wailing	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"Instead of confirming the intention of suicide he said ""No! we are angry because you have whooped like this; but there is no need to go out to sea"". Finally after more talk the party returned and finished their rites. Later, after the group dispersed, the Ariki and Pa Porima sat on at Takarito. Then came Pa Koroatu the brother of Pa Niukapu, and Vaitere, his son, with gifts of bananas and breadfruit to the chief. Crawling to him along the ground, they pressed their noses to his knee, as the custom is, in token of their humility. ""The one fool in Tikopia,"" said Pa Koroatu of his brother. The apology and the present were accepted by the Ariki, and the incident was tacitly buried."	x	Evidence for	public	unknown	Evidence for	low,unknown	unknown
427	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tikopia	If a person struck his father, however, that would be too much. He would be expected to take a canoe and go out to sea, there to be lost--the favourite method of suicide. The father would wail for his son, then go out in search of him. If he found him, he would bring him back. If not, he might go on himself to meet death, or turn back to weep in his house and dwell there. This is a hypothetical procedure, advanced by my informants in reply to questioning, and not tested by observation, since I did not witness such a scene, nor could anyone tell me of an instance. The striking of father by son is indeed almost out of the realm of native social behaviour, since a violent reaction of the son against the father would lead him to suicide direct, as not infrequently happens. This is in fact the son's remedy against injustice, and the knowledge of it acts as a check upon temperamental fathers.	No evidence	x	young adult	 If a person struck his father, however, that would be too much. He would be expected to take a canoe and go out to sea, there to be lost--the favourite method of suicide	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 If a person struck his father, however, that would be too much. He would be expected to take a canoe and go out to sea, there to be lost--the favourite method of suicide	disapprovingly	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	male	na	No evidence	unknown		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	attempt	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	The father would wail for his son, then go out in search of him. If he found him, he would bring him back. If not, he might go on himself to meet death, or turn back to weep in his house and dwell there. 	x	No evidence	public	unknown	Evidence against		na
427	syme	Cultural model	Tikopia	If a person struck his father, however, that would be too much. He would be expected to take a canoe and go out to sea, there to be lost--the favourite method of suicide. The father would wail for his son, then go out in search of him. If he found him, he would bring him back. If not, he might go on himself to meet death, or turn back to weep in his house and dwell there. This is a hypothetical procedure, advanced by my informants in reply to questioning, and not tested by observation, since I did not witness such a scene, nor could anyone tell me of an instance. The striking of father by son is indeed almost out of the realm of native social behaviour, since a violent reaction of the son against the father would lead him to suicide direct, as not infrequently happens. This is in fact the son's remedy against injustice, and the knowledge of it acts as a check upon temperamental fathers.	No evidence	x	young adult	If a person struck his father, however, that would be too much. He would be expected to take a canoe and go out to sea, there to be lost--the favourite method of suicide. The father would wail for his son, then go out in search of him. If he found him, he would bring him back. If not, he might go on himself to meet death, or turn back to weep in his house and dwell there. This is a hypothetical procedure, advanced by my informants in reply to questioning, and not tested by observation, since I did not witness such a scene, nor could anyone tell me of an instance. The striking of father by son is indeed almost out of the realm of native social behaviour, since a violent reaction of the son against the father would lead him to suicide direct, as not infrequently happens. This is in fact the son's remedy against injustice, and the knowledge of it acts as a check upon temperamental fathers.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	If a person struck his father, however, that would be too much. He would be expected to take a canoe and go out to sea, there to be lost--the favourite method of suicide. The father would wail for his son, then go out in search of him. If he found him, he would bring him back. If not, he might go on himself to meet death, or turn back to weep in his house and dwell there. This is a hypothetical procedure, advanced by my informants in reply to questioning, and not tested by observation, since I did not witness such a scene, nor could anyone tell me of an instance. The striking of father by son is indeed almost out of the realm of native social behaviour, since a violent reaction of the son against the father would lead him to suicide direct, as not infrequently happens. This is in fact the son's remedy against injustice, and the knowledge of it acts as a check upon temperamental fathers.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	adult	father	male	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence for		no evidence	attempt,completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	violence reactions	x	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	If a person struck his father, however, that would be too much. He would be expected to take a canoe and go out to sea, there to be lost--the favourite method of suicide. The father would wail for his son, then go out in search of him. If he found him, he would bring him back. If not, he might go on himself to meet death, or turn back to weep in his house and dwell there. This is a hypothetical procedure, advanced by my informants in reply to questioning, and not tested by observation, since I did not witness such a scene, nor could anyone tell me of an instance. The striking of father by son is indeed almost out of the realm of native social behaviour, since a violent reaction of the son against the father would lead him to suicide direct, as not infrequently happens. This is in fact the son's remedy against injustice, and the knowledge of it acts as a check upon temperamental fathers.	x	Evidence for	public	unknown	No evidence	average,unknown	na
428	zgarfield	Case	Tikopia	Another song is one composed by a man Pae Nu[unknown]a for his sister. She quarrelled with her mother and committed suicide by the usual Tikopia method of swimming out to sea. The song is a simple statement of fact, yet implicit in its affection, sympathy and regret. It runs: My sister, my nourisher, you have leapt into the ocean And you did not turn your head to shore You formed your idea, your foolish thought You went away that you might die.	No evidence	x	adult	She quarrelled with her mother and committed suicide by the usual Tikopia method of swimming out to sea. 	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	She quarrelled with her mother and committed suicide by the usual Tikopia method of swimming out to sea. 	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	female	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence against		firsthand
428	syme	Case	Tikopia	Another song is one composed by a man Pae Nu[unknown]a for his sister. She quarrelled with her mother and committed suicide by the usual Tikopia method of swimming out to sea. The song is a simple statement of fact, yet implicit in its affection, sympathy and regret. It runs: My sister, my nourisher, you have leapt into the ocean And you did not turn your head to shore You formed your idea, your foolish thought You went away that you might die.	No evidence	x	unknown	 Another song is one composed by a man Pae Nu[unknown]a for his sister. She quarrelled with her mother and committed suicide by the usual Tikopia method of swimming out to sea. The song is a simple statement of fact, yet implicit in its affection, sympathy and regret. It runs: My sister, my nourisher, you have leapt into the ocean And you did not turn your head to shore You formed your idea, your foolish thought You went away that you might die.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 Another song is one composed by a man Pae Nu[unknown]a for his sister. She quarrelled with her mother and committed suicide by the usual Tikopia method of swimming out to sea. The song is a simple statement of fact, yet implicit in its affection, sympathy and regret. It runs: My sister, my nourisher, you have leapt into the ocean And you did not turn your head to shore You formed your idea, your foolish thought You went away that you might die.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	mother	female	na	No evidence	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	 Another song is one composed by a man Pae Nu[unknown]a for his sister. She quarrelled with her mother and committed suicide by the usual Tikopia method of swimming out to sea. The song is a simple statement of fact, yet implicit in its affection, sympathy and regret. It runs: My sister, my nourisher, you have leapt into the ocean And you did not turn your head to shore You formed your idea, your foolish thought You went away that you might die.	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	secondhand
429	zgarfield	Case	Tikopia	The curious case of Pu Sao illustrates this. In a g417athering of chiefs and other men of rank he broke wind very audibly. Overcome with shame he left them. Some days later he was found dead at the top of a coconut palm. He had committed suicide, not by hanging, a common method, but by impaling himself through the fundament on one of the hard dry spathes, sharply pointed, which are usually to be found there. In a list of original deaths that of Pu Sao should rank exceptionally high.	No evidence	x	adult	In a g417athering of chiefs and other men of rank he broke wind very audibly. Overcome with shame he left them. Some days later he was found dead at the top of a coconut palm. He had committed suicide, not by hanging, a common method, but by impaling himself through the fundament on one of the hard dry spathes, sharply pointed, which are usually to be found there.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	In a g417athering of chiefs and other men of rank he broke wind very audibly. Overcome with shame he left them. Some days later he was found dead at the top of a coconut palm. He had committed suicide, not by hanging, a common method, but by impaling himself through the fundament on one of the hard dry spathes, sharply pointed, which are usually to be found there.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	stabbing	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	multiple social doma	male	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		unknown	shame	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	private	no	No evidence		firsthand
429	syme	Case	Tikopia	The curious case of Pu Sao illustrates this. In a g417athering of chiefs and other men of rank he broke wind very audibly. Overcome with shame he left them. Some days later he was found dead at the top of a coconut palm. He had committed suicide, not by hanging, a common method, but by impaling himself through the fundament on one of the hard dry spathes, sharply pointed, which are usually to be found there. In a list of original deaths that of Pu Sao should rank exceptionally high.	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	The curious case of Pu Sao illustrates this. In a g417athering of chiefs and other men of rank he broke wind very audibly. Overcome with shame he left them. Some days later he was found dead at the top of a coconut palm. He had committed suicide, not by hanging, a common method, but by impaling himself through the fundament on one of the hard dry spathes, sharply pointed, which are usually to be found there. In a list of original deaths that of Pu Sao should rank exceptionally high.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	stabbing	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	1	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	unknown	shame	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	private	unknown	No evidence	high	unknown
431	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tikopia	"But such a man [of rank] baulks at taking a mistress already deflowered. He desires her, but she is ""bad,"", and he cannot bear that another has preceded him. But neither can he bear to see her living with another husband. He does then the only logical thing, that which his rank empowers him to do--he orders her out of his sight, to swim off to sea. Enforced suicide is the punishment for persons who offend chiefs and maru, and the unfortunate girl has no way of escape."	Evidence for	x	young adult,adult	" But such a man [of rank] baulks at taking a mistress already deflowered. He desires her, but she is ""bad,"", and he cannot bear that another has preceded him. But neither can he bear to see her living with another husband. He does then the only logical thing, that which his rank empowers him to do--he orders her out of his sight, to swim off to sea. Enforced suicide is the punishment for persons who offend chiefs and maru, and the unfortunate girl has no way of escape."	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	" But such a man [of rank] baulks at taking a mistress already deflowered. He desires her, but she is ""bad,"", and he cannot bear that another has preceded him. But neither can he bear to see her living with another husband. He does then the only logical thing, that which his rank empowers him to do--he orders her out of his sight, to swim off to sea. Enforced suicide is the punishment for persons who offend chiefs and maru, and the unfortunate girl has no way of escape."	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	social superior	male	na	No evidence	female		Evidence against	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	"Enforced suicide is the punishment for persons who offend chiefs and maru, and the unfortunate girl has no way of escape.
"	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence		na
431	syme	Cultural model	Tikopia	"But such a man [of rank] baulks at taking a mistress already deflowered. He desires her, but she is ""bad,"", and he cannot bear that another has preceded him. But neither can he bear to see her living with another husband. He does then the only logical thing, that which his rank empowers him to do--he orders her out of his sight, to swim off to sea. Enforced suicide is the punishment for persons who offend chiefs and maru, and the unfortunate girl has no way of escape."	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,elderly,unknown	"But such a man [of rank] baulks at taking a mistress already deflowered. He desires her, but she is ""bad,"", and he cannot bear that another has preceded him. But neither can he bear to see her living with another husband. He does then the only logical thing, that which his rank empowers him to do--he orders her out of his sight, to swim off to sea. Enforced suicide is the punishment for persons who offend chiefs and maru, and the unfortunate girl has no way of escape."	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"But such a man [of rank] baulks at taking a mistress already deflowered. He desires her, but she is ""bad,"", and he cannot bear that another has preceded him. But neither can he bear to see her living with another husband. He does then the only logical thing, that which his rank empowers him to do--he orders her out of his sight, to swim off to sea. Enforced suicide is the punishment for persons who offend chiefs and maru, and the unfortunate girl has no way of escape."	approvingly,ambivalently	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult,elder	chief	male	na	No evidence	both	x	Evidence against		no evidence	completion	X	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	unclear suicide	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	yes	No evidence	average,low	unknown
432	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tikopia	If a young man brings his wife home without previous announcement, the parents accept the matter with the best grace they can. If they refused to receive her, then presumably the suicide of the pair would be their last resort.	No evidence	x	young adult	If a young man brings his wife home without previous announcement, the parents accept the matter with the best grace they can. If they refused to receive her, then presumably the suicide of the pair would be their last resort.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	If a young man brings his wife home without previous announcement, the parents accept the matter with the best grace they can. If they refused to receive her, then presumably the suicide of the pair would be their last resort.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	"If they refused to receive her, then presumably the suicide of the pair would be their last resort.
"	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	both		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	2	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence against		na
432	syme	Cultural model	Tikopia	If a young man brings his wife home without previous announcement, the parents accept the matter with the best grace they can. If they refused to receive her, then presumably the suicide of the pair would be their last resort.	No evidence	x	young adult	If a young man brings his wife home without previous announcement, the parents accept the matter with the best grace they can. If they refused to receive her, then presumably the suicide of the pair would be their last resort.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	If a young man brings his wife home without previous announcement, the parents accept the matter with the best grace they can. If they refused to receive her, then presumably the suicide of the pair would be their last resort.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	both	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	2	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence against	unknown	na
433	zgarfield	Case	Tikopia	Failure to achieve a win is sometimes felt so keenly as to lead to tragic consequences. The recent suicide of the eldest son of the heir to the chieftainship of Tafua is traced to this immediate cause. The lad attended the match as a novice and failed to score. Being of an excitable temperament, he burned with disgrace and that same night, after dancing furiously for some hours, put off secretly in a small canoe in a raging storm. He was not seen again, and the tragedy has cast a gloom over his family.	No evidence	x	adult	 Failure to achieve a win is sometimes felt so keenly as to lead to tragic consequences. The recent suicide of the eldest son of the heir to the chieftainship of Tafua is traced to this immediate cause. The lad attended the match as a novice and failed to score. Being of an excitable temperament, he burned with disgrace and that same night, after dancing furiously for some hours, put off secretly in a small canoe in a raging storm.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	 Failure to achieve a win is sometimes felt so keenly as to lead to tragic consequences. The recent suicide of the eldest son of the heir to the chieftainship of Tafua is traced to this immediate cause. The lad attended the match as a novice and failed to score. Being of an excitable temperament, he burned with disgrace and that same night, after dancing furiously for some hours, put off secretly in a small canoe in a raging storm.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	The lad attended the match as a novice and failed to score. Being of an excitable temperament, he burned with disgrace and that same night, after dancing furiously for some hours, put off secretly in a small canoe in a raging storm. 	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	disgrace	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"He was not seen again, and the tragedy has cast a gloom over his family.
"	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence against		firsthand
433	syme	Case	Tikopia	Failure to achieve a win is sometimes felt so keenly as to lead to tragic consequences. The recent suicide of the eldest son of the heir to the chieftainship of Tafua is traced to this immediate cause. The lad attended the match as a novice and failed to score. Being of an excitable temperament, he burned with disgrace and that same night, after dancing furiously for some hours, put off secretly in a small canoe in a raging storm. He was not seen again, and the tragedy has cast a gloom over his family.	No evidence	x	young adult	Failure to achieve a win is sometimes felt so keenly as to lead to tragic consequences. The recent suicide of the eldest son of the heir to the chieftainship of Tafua is traced to this immediate cause. The lad attended the match as a novice and failed to score. Being of an excitable temperament, he burned with disgrace and that same night, after dancing furiously for some hours, put off secretly in a small canoe in a raging storm. He was not seen again, and the tragedy has cast a gloom over his family.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	Evidence against	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	dancing in a rage for hours	6	x	excitable temperament	x	no	rage, furious	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	private	no	No evidence	high	unknown
434	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tikopia	"On the rare occasions on which a girl makes known her choice to her parents, her action is usually dictated by a passion of overwhelming strength, which makes her reckless as to consequences. A threat of suicide, if thwarted, not infrequently accompanies such a declaration. If firmly opposed she may say, ""Of all the men that go about, I see only one; if you object I will swim out to sea."" This announcement is usually intended seriously and, as the natives say, parental affection concedes her desire. It is unpleasant for a Tikopian, as for any other father, to contemplate the certain prospect of his daughter being devoured by sharks. [p. 238] A man, if pushed to extremes, may threaten to take a canoe and set himself adrift, but usually before the argument reaches this stage his relatives fall silent. Nevertheless, their abandonment of the discussion does not mean concession. Beeretly and hurriedly they decide upon a wife for their son: then, forming a strong party of his brothers, cousins and others of his father's kin, they sally out to seise the woman of their choice. They find her in the path, or in the cultivations, and bear her off, struggling and shrieking to their house. A rough-and-tumble with the girl's people ensues, but the party of rescue or vengeance seldom get her back. The man himself in such a case does not take too kindly to the situation for the first few hours, but the die has been cast and he hasperforce to accept."	No evidence	x	young adult,adult	On the rare occasions on which a girl makes known her choice to her parents, her action is usually dictated by a passion of overwhelming strength, which makes her reckless as to consequences. A threat of suicide, if thwarted, not infrequently accompanies such a declaration.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	On the rare occasions on which a girl makes known her choice to her parents, her action is usually dictated by a passion of overwhelming strength, which makes her reckless as to consequences. A threat of suicide, if thwarted, not infrequently accompanies such a declaration.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements,not stated	"A threat of suicide, if thwarted, not infrequently accompanies such a declaration. If firmly opposed she may say, ""Of all the men that go about, I see only one; if you object I will swim out to sea."" This announcement is usually intended seriously and, as the natives say, parental affection concedes her desire. "	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	both		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		na
434	syme	Cultural model	Tikopia	"On the rare occasions on which a girl makes known her choice to her parents, her action is usually dictated by a passion of overwhelming strength, which makes her reckless as to consequences. A threat of suicide, if thwarted, not infrequently accompanies such a declaration. If firmly opposed she may say, ""Of all the men that go about, I see only one; if you object I will swim out to sea."" This announcement is usually intended seriously and, as the natives say, parental affection concedes her desire. It is unpleasant for a Tikopian, as for any other father, to contemplate the certain prospect of his daughter being devoured by sharks. [p. 238] A man, if pushed to extremes, may threaten to take a canoe and set himself adrift, but usually before the argument reaches this stage his relatives fall silent. Nevertheless, their abandonment of the discussion does not mean concession. Beeretly and hurriedly they decide upon a wife for their son: then, forming a strong party of his brothers, cousins and others of his father's kin, they sally out to seise the woman of their choice. They find her in the path, or in the cultivations, and bear her off, struggling and shrieking to their house. A rough-and-tumble with the girl's people ensues, but the party of rescue or vengeance seldom get her back. The man himself in such a case does not take too kindly to the situation for the first few hours, but the die has been cast and he hasperforce to accept."	No evidence	x	young adult	"On the rare occasions on which a girl makes known her choice to her parents, her action is usually dictated by a passion of overwhelming strength, which makes her reckless as to consequences. A threat of suicide, if thwarted, not infrequently accompanies such a declaration. If firmly opposed she may say, ""Of all the men that go about, I see only one; if you object I will swim out to sea."" This announcement is usually intended seriously and, as the natives say, parental affection concedes her desire. It is unpleasant for a Tikopian, as for any other father, to contemplate the certain prospect of his daughter being devoured by sharks. [p. 238] A man, if pushed to extremes, may threaten to take a canoe and set himself adrift, but usually before the argument reaches this stage his relatives fall silent. Nevertheless, their abandonment of the discussion does not mean concession. Beeretly and hurriedly they decide upon a wife for their son: then, forming a strong party of his brothers, cousins and others of his father's kin, they sally out to seise the woman of their choice."	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"On the rare occasions on which a girl makes known her choice to her parents, her action is usually dictated by a passion of overwhelming strength, which makes her reckless as to consequences. A threat of suicide, if thwarted, not infrequently accompanies such a declaration. If firmly opposed she may say, ""Of all the men that go about, I see only one; if you object I will swim out to sea."" This announcement is usually intended seriously and, as the natives say, parental affection concedes her desire. It is unpleasant for a Tikopian, as for any other father, to contemplate the certain prospect of his daughter being devoured by sharks. [p. 238] A man, if pushed to extremes, may threaten to take a canoe and set himself adrift, but usually before the argument reaches this stage his relatives fall silent. Nevertheless, their abandonment of the discussion does not mean concession. Beeretly and hurriedly they decide upon a wife for their son: then, forming a strong party of his brothers, cousins and others of his father's kin, they sally out to seise the woman of their choice. "	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	subject_to_elements	"On the rare occasions on which a girl makes known her choice to her parents, her action is usually dictated by a passion of overwhelming strength, which makes her reckless as to consequences. A threat of suicide, if thwarted, not infrequently accompanies such a declaration. If firmly opposed she may say, ""Of all the men that go about, I see only one; if you object I will swim out to sea."" This announcement is usually intended seriously and, as the natives say, parental affection concedes her desire. It is unpleasant for a Tikopian, as for any other father, to contemplate the certain prospect of his daughter being devoured by sharks. [p. 238] A man, if pushed to extremes, may threaten to take a canoe and set himself adrift, but usually before the argument reaches this stage his relatives fall silent. Nevertheless, their abandonment of the discussion does not mean concession. Beeretly and hurriedly they decide upon a wife for their son: then, forming a strong party of his brothers, cousins and others of his father's kin, they sally out to seise the woman of their choice. "	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	threat	1	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	This announcement is usually intended seriously and, as the natives say, parental affection concedes her desire. It is unpleasant for a Tikopian, as for any other father, to contemplate the certain prospect of his daughter being devoured by sharks. 	x	Evidence for	public	no	No evidence	unknown	na
435	zgarfield	Case	Tikopia	It is remarkable that no less than four of the persons included in the pedigrees committed suicide. It was arranged that Tofionga (5) was to marry Paefakofe (10) but being [p. 347] afraid of getting sores after the birth of a child she killed herself.	No evidence	x	adult	"It is remarkable that no less than four of the persons included in the pedigrees committed suicide. It was arranged that Tofionga (5) was to marry Paefakofe (10) but being [p. 347] afraid of getting sores after the birth of a child she killed herself.
"	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"It is remarkable that no less than four of the persons included in the pedigrees committed suicide. It was arranged that Tofionga (5) was to marry Paefakofe (10) but being [p. 347] afraid of getting sores after the birth of a child she killed herself.
"	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	"It is remarkable that no less than four of the persons included in the pedigrees committed suicide. It was arranged that Tofionga (5) was to marry Paefakofe (10) but being [p. 347] afraid of getting sores after the birth of a child she killed herself.
"	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	potential spouse	male	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	afraid	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
435	syme	Case	Tikopia	It is remarkable that no less than four of the persons included in the pedigrees committed suicide. It was arranged that Tofionga (5) was to marry Paefakofe (10) but being [p. 347] afraid of getting sores after the birth of a child she killed herself.	No evidence	x	young adult	It is remarkable that no less than four of the persons included in the pedigrees committed suicide. It was arranged that Tofionga (5) was to marry Paefakofe (10) but being [p. 347] afraid of getting sores after the birth of a child she killed herself	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	It is remarkable that no less than four of the persons included in the pedigrees committed suicide. It was arranged that Tofionga (5) was to marry Paefakofe (10) but being [p. 347] afraid of getting sores after the birth of a child she killed herself	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	high,unknown	unknown
436	zgarfield	Case	Tikopia	Tearikifono (9) killed herself on the discovery of an intrigue...The manner of the suicide of these two women is not given, but in the other two cases the victims,	No evidence	x	adult	Tearikifono (9) killed herself on the discovery of an intrigue...The manner of the suicide of these two women is not given	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Tearikifono (9) killed herself on the discovery of an intrigue...The manner of the suicide of these two women is not given	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	Tearikifono (9) killed herself on the discovery of an intrigue...The manner of the suicide of these two women is not given	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown		No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
436	syme	Case	Tikopia	Tearikifono (9) killed herself on the discovery of an intrigue...The manner of the suicide of these two women is not given, but in the other two cases the victims,	No evidence	x	young adult,unknown	Tearikifono (9) killed herself on the discovery of an intrigue...The manner of the suicide of these two women is not given, but in the other two cases the victims,	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Tearikifono (9) killed herself on the discovery of an intrigue...The manner of the suicide of these two women is not given, but in the other two cases the victims,	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	1	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	secondhand
437	zgarfield	Case	Tikopia	Paeraroifi and Nauraroifi (8) hanged themselves. The occurrence of these four cases in so limited a number of pedigrees suggests that suicide must be a frequent occurrence in Tikopia....The manner of the suicide of these two women is not given, but in the other two cases the victims,	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	2	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
437	syme	Case	Tikopia	Paeraroifi and Nauraroifi (8) hanged themselves. The occurrence of these four cases in so limited a number of pedigrees suggests that suicide must be a frequent occurrence in Tikopia....The manner of the suicide of these two women is not given, but in the other two cases the victims,	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	2,rate	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	secondhand
439	zgarfield	Case	Tikopia	During a period of several months following the 'evilfono ', there were five suicide voyages, all unsuccessful. Three canoe-loads of people were retrieved at the edge of the reef. The two others were given up for lost at sea, but they returned after an absence of two days. Each of the attempted suicides had a different specific reason, but common to all was the feeling of rejection by the community.	No evidence	x	unknown	During a period of several months following the 'evilfono ', there were five suicide voyages, all unsuccessful. Three canoe-loads of people were retrieved at the edge of the reef. The two others were given up for lost at sea, but they returned after an absence of two days. Each of the attempted suicides had a different specific reason, but common to all was the feeling of rejection by the community.	rejection	No evidence	na	Evidence for	During a period of several months following the 'evilfono ', there were five suicide voyages, all unsuccessful. Three canoe-loads of people were retrieved at the edge of the reef. The two others were given up for lost at sea, but they returned after an absence of two days. Each of the attempted suicides had a different specific reason, but common to all was the feeling of rejection by the community.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	rejection  	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	During a period of several months following the 'evilfono ', there were five suicide voyages, all unsuccessful. Three canoe-loads of people were retrieved at the edge of the reef. The two others were given up for lost at sea, but they returned after an absence of two days. Each of the attempted suicides had a different specific reason, but common to all was the feeling of rejection by the community.	x	No evidence	public	no	No evidence		firsthand
439	syme	Case	Tikopia	During a period of several months following the 'evilfono ', there were five suicide voyages, all unsuccessful. Three canoe-loads of people were retrieved at the edge of the reef. The two others were given up for lost at sea, but they returned after an absence of two days. Each of the attempted suicides had a different specific reason, but common to all was the feeling of rejection by the community.	No evidence	x	unknown	Each of the attempted suicides had a different specific reason, but common to all was the feeling of rejection by the community. These attempts at suicide may also be interpreted as a demonstration that, despite Government and the frustrating European on the island, the society could still prove its power of life and death over its members. It was reassuring perhaps that it could still send people out to sea and then retrieve them, despite heavy European sanctions against such events.	rejection	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	social group	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	5,rate	x	During a period of several months following the 'evilfono ', there were five suicide voyages, all unsuccessful. Three canoe-loads of people were retrieved at the edge of the reef. The two others were given up for lost at sea, but they returned after an absence of two days.	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	firsthand
441	zgarfield	Cultural model	Trobriands	"In olden days, where adultery was concerned, and one of the parties more or less proved that the other was lying, the protestant could tie a string of shame, made of plaited fibre, round the wrist of the other. If the protestant was a man, the woman with the string of shame would either commit suicide or would form an ""avoidance"" relationship that would never be broken."	Evidence for	x	adult	"In olden days, where adultery was concerned, and one of the parties more or less proved that the other was lying, the protestant could tie a string of shame, made of plaited fibre, round the wrist of the other. If the protestant was a man, the woman with the string of shame would either commit suicide or would form an ""avoidance"" relationship that would never be broken.
"	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"In olden days, where adultery was concerned, and one of the parties more or less proved that the other was lying, the protestant could tie a string of shame, made of plaited fibre, round the wrist of the other. If the protestant was a man, the woman with the string of shame would either commit suicide or would form an ""avoidance"" relationship that would never be broken.
"	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	male	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	shame	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence		na
441	syme	Cultural model	Trobriands	"In olden days, where adultery was concerned, and one of the parties more or less proved that the other was lying, the protestant could tie a string of shame, made of plaited fibre, round the wrist of the other. If the protestant was a man, the woman with the string of shame would either commit suicide or would form an ""avoidance"" relationship that would never be broken."	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,unknown	"In olden days, where adultery was concerned, and one of the parties more or less proved that the other was lying, the protestant could tie a string of shame, made of plaited fibre, round the wrist of the other. If the protestant was a man, the woman with the string of shame would either commit suicide or would form an ""avoidance"" relationship that would never be broken."	accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"In olden days, where adultery was concerned, and one of the parties more or less proved that the other was lying, the protestant could tie a string of shame, made of plaited fibre, round the wrist of the other. If the protestant was a man, the woman with the string of shame would either commit suicide or would form an ""avoidance"" relationship that would never be broken."	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	ado_young_adult,adult,unknown	husband	male	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	shame	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	low,unknown	na
442	zgarfield	Cultural model	Trobriands	"""Incest,"" when publicly known, was a cause for great shame, and often ended with the suicide of one of the parties."	No evidence	x	adult	"Incest,"" when publicly known, was a cause for great shame, and often ended with the suicide of one of the parties.
"	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Incest,"" when publicly known, was a cause for great shame, and often ended with the suicide of one of the parties.
"	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	incest		x	x		na	shame	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		na
442	syme	Cultural model	Trobriands	"""Incest,"" when publicly known, was a cause for great shame, and often ended with the suicide of one of the parties."	No evidence	x	unknown	"""Incest,"" when publicly known, was a cause for great shame, and often ended with the suicide of one of the parties."	accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	social group	na	na	Evidence for	both	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	shame	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	low,unknown	na
443	zgarfield	Case	Trobriands	"Kouta'uya, a chief of the compound village of Sinaketa, went on akula expedition to Gumasila.1 One of his wives, Bogonela, had a lover, by name Kaukweda Guya'u. Both men are still alive and well known to me. The eldest wife of the absent chief, Pitaviyaka, was suspicious [p. 119] of her fairer companion and watched her. Hearing a noise one night, she went to Bogonela's hut and found the two lovers together. A great scandal broke out in the village. The guilty wife was publicly harangued and insulted by the female relatives of her husband: ""You like carnal pleasures too much; you are too fond of male charms."" Bogonela did as the custom and ideal of personal honour dictated. In her best attire and adorned with all her valuable ornaments, she climbed a tall coconut palm on the central place of the village. Her little daughter, Kaniyaviyaka, stood under the tree and cried. Many people were assembled. She commended her child to the care of the eldest wife and jumped from the tree. She was killed on the spot."	No evidence	x	adult	"Pitaviyaka, was suspicious [p. 119] of her fairer companion and watched her. Hearing a noise one night, she went to Bogonela's hut and found the two lovers together. A great scandal broke out in the village. The guilty wife was publicly harangued and insulted by the female relatives of her husband: ""You like carnal pleasures too much; you are too fond of male charms."" Bogonela did as the custom and ideal of personal honour dictated. In her best attire and adorned with all her valuable ornaments, she climbed a tall coconut palm on the central place of the village. Her little daughter, Kaniyaviyaka, stood under the tree and cried. Many people were assembled. She commended her child to the care of the eldest wife and jumped from the tree. She was killed on the spot."	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Pitaviyaka, was suspicious [p. 119] of her fairer companion and watched her. Hearing a noise one night, she went to Bogonela's hut and found the two lovers together. A great scandal broke out in the village. The guilty wife was publicly harangued and insulted by the female relatives of her husband: ""You like carnal pleasures too much; you are too fond of male charms."" Bogonela did as the custom and ideal of personal honour dictated. In her best attire and adorned with all her valuable ornaments, she climbed a tall coconut palm on the central place of the village. Her little daughter, Kaniyaviyaka, stood under the tree and cried. Many people were assembled. She commended her child to the care of the eldest wife and jumped from the tree. She was killed on the spot."	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	male	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		yes	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	no	Evidence against		firsthand
443	syme	Case	Trobriands	"Kouta'uya, a chief of the compound village of Sinaketa, went on akula expedition to Gumasila.1 One of his wives, Bogonela, had a lover, by name Kaukweda Guya'u. Both men are still alive and well known to me. The eldest wife of the absent chief, Pitaviyaka, was suspicious [p. 119] of her fairer companion and watched her. Hearing a noise one night, she went to Bogonela's hut and found the two lovers together. A great scandal broke out in the village. The guilty wife was publicly harangued and insulted by the female relatives of her husband: ""You like carnal pleasures too much; you are too fond of male charms."" Bogonela did as the custom and ideal of personal honour dictated. In her best attire and adorned with all her valuable ornaments, she climbed a tall coconut palm on the central place of the village. Her little daughter, Kaniyaviyaka, stood under the tree and cried. Many people were assembled. She commended her child to the care of the eldest wife and jumped from the tree. She was killed on the spot."	No evidence	x	young adult,unknown	"Kouta'uya, a chief of the compound village of Sinaketa, went on akula expedition to Gumasila.1 One of his wives, Bogonela, had a lover, by name Kaukweda Guya'u. Both men are still alive and well known to me. The eldest wife of the absent chief, Pitaviyaka, was suspicious [p. 119] of her fairer companion and watched her. Hearing a noise one night, she went to Bogonela's hut and found the two lovers together. A great scandal broke out in the village. The guilty wife was publicly harangued and insulted by the female relatives of her husband: ""You like carnal pleasures too much; you are too fond of male charms."" Bogonela did as the custom and ideal of personal honour dictated. In her best attire and adorned with all her valuable ornaments, she climbed a tall coconut palm on the central place of the village. Her little daughter, Kaniyaviyaka, stood under the tree and cried. Many people were assembled. She commended her child to the care of the eldest wife and jumped from the tree. She was killed on the spot."	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Kouta'uya, a chief of the compound village of Sinaketa, went on akula expedition to Gumasila.1 One of his wives, Bogonela, had a lover, by name Kaukweda Guya'u. Both men are still alive and well known to me. The eldest wife of the absent chief, Pitaviyaka, was suspicious [p. 119] of her fairer companion and watched her. Hearing a noise one night, she went to Bogonela's hut and found the two lovers together. A great scandal broke out in the village. The guilty wife was publicly harangued and insulted by the female relatives of her husband: ""You like carnal pleasures too much; you are too fond of male charms."" Bogonela did as the custom and ideal of personal honour dictated. In her best attire and adorned with all her valuable ornaments, she climbed a tall coconut palm on the central place of the village. Her little daughter, Kaniyaviyaka, stood under the tree and cried. Many people were assembled. She commended her child to the care of the eldest wife and jumped from the tree. She was killed on the spot."	approvingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	jumping	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	adult,unknown	cowife,affines	female	na	Evidence for	female	x	Evidence against		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	polygyny	yes	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	public	yes	Evidence for	low,unknown	unknown
444	zgarfield	Case	Trobriands	"There are many such stories which prove the existence of strong passions and complex sentiments among the natives. Thus a man of Sinaketa named Gumaluya was married to Kutawouya, but fell in love with Ilapakuna, and entered into a regular liaison with her. His wife refused to cook for him or to bring him water, so he had to receive these from a married sister. One evening, at the time when a village is socially astir with families sitting over their supper or gossiping round the fire, Kutawouya made a scene in public, and her scolding rang right through the village: ""You are too fond of dissipation; you are in a constant state of sexual excitement; you never tire of copulation""; these were fragments of her speech, retailed to me in a vividly coloured narrative. She goaded herself into a fury, and insulted the man in such shocking words that he also became blinded by passion, [p. 120] and seized a stick and beat her into senselessness. Next day she committed suicide by taking the gall-bladder of thesoka fish (a species of globe-fish), a poison which acts with lightning rapidity."	No evidence	x	adult	he goaded herself into a fury, and insulted the man in such shocking words that he also became blinded by passion, [p. 120] and seized a stick and beat her into senselessness. Next day she committed suicide by taking the gall-bladder of thesoka fish (a species of globe-fish), a poison which acts with lightning rapidity.	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	he goaded herself into a fury, and insulted the man in such shocking words that he also became blinded by passion, [p. 120] and seized a stick and beat her into senselessness. Next day she committed suicide by taking the gall-bladder of thesoka fish (a species of globe-fish), a poison which acts with lightning rapidity.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	poisoning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	female	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		unknown	blinded by passion 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence against		firsthand
444	syme	Case	Trobriands	"There are many such stories which prove the existence of strong passions and complex sentiments among the natives. Thus a man of Sinaketa named Gumaluya was married to Kutawouya, but fell in love with Ilapakuna, and entered into a regular liaison with her. His wife refused to cook for him or to bring him water, so he had to receive these from a married sister. One evening, at the time when a village is socially astir with families sitting over their supper or gossiping round the fire, Kutawouya made a scene in public, and her scolding rang right through the village: ""You are too fond of dissipation; you are in a constant state of sexual excitement; you never tire of copulation""; these were fragments of her speech, retailed to me in a vividly coloured narrative. She goaded herself into a fury, and insulted the man in such shocking words that he also became blinded by passion, [p. 120] and seized a stick and beat her into senselessness. Next day she committed suicide by taking the gall-bladder of thesoka fish (a species of globe-fish), a poison which acts with lightning rapidity."	Evidence for	x	adult,unknown	"There are many such stories which prove the existence of strong passions and complex sentiments among the natives. Thus a man of Sinaketa named Gumaluya was married to Kutawouya, but fell in love with Ilapakuna, and entered into a regular liaison with her. His wife refused to cook for him or to bring him water, so he had to receive these from a married sister. One evening, at the time when a village is socially astir with families sitting over their supper or gossiping round the fire, Kutawouya made a scene in public, and her scolding rang right through the village: ""You are too fond of dissipation; you are in a constant state of sexual excitement; you never tire of copulation""; these were fragments of her speech, retailed to me in a vividly coloured narrative. She goaded herself into a fury, and insulted the man in such shocking words that he also became blinded by passion, [p. 120] and seized a stick and beat her into senselessness. Next day she committed suicide by taking the gall-bladder of thesoka fish (a species of globe-fish), a poison which acts with lightning rapidity."	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"There are many such stories which prove the existence of strong passions and complex sentiments among the natives. Thus a man of Sinaketa named Gumaluya was married to Kutawouya, but fell in love with Ilapakuna, and entered into a regular liaison with her. His wife refused to cook for him or to bring him water, so he had to receive these from a married sister. One evening, at the time when a village is socially astir with families sitting over their supper or gossiping round the fire, Kutawouya made a scene in public, and her scolding rang right through the village: ""You are too fond of dissipation; you are in a constant state of sexual excitement; you never tire of copulation""; these were fragments of her speech, retailed to me in a vividly coloured narrative. She goaded herself into a fury, and insulted the man in such shocking words that he also became blinded by passion, [p. 120] and seized a stick and beat her into senselessness. Next day she committed suicide by taking the gall-bladder of thesoka fish (a species of globe-fish), a poison which acts with lightning rapidity."	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	poisoning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	adult	husband	male	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		physical abuse	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	"There are many such stories which prove the existence of strong passions and complex sentiments among the natives. Thus a man of Sinaketa named Gumaluya was married to Kutawouya, but fell in love with Ilapakuna, and entered into a regular liaison with her. His wife refused to cook for him or to bring him water, so he had to receive these from a married sister. One evening, at the time when a village is socially astir with families sitting over their supper or gossiping round the fire, Kutawouya made a scene in public, and her scolding rang right through the village: ""You are too fond of dissipation; you are in a constant state of sexual excitement; you never tire of copulation""; these were fragments of her speech, retailed to me in a vividly coloured narrative. She goaded herself into a fury, and insulted the man in such shocking words that he also became blinded by passion, [p. 120] and seized a stick and beat her into senselessness. "	4	x	x	polygyny	unknown	anger	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	secondhand
445	zgarfield	Case	Trobriands	"Isakapu, a fine-looking young woman, virtuous and hard-working, was, if we are to believe the testimony of historical gossip, quite faithful to her husband, yet wrongfully suspected by him. One day, returning home after a prolonged absence, he fell into a fury of jealousy; he accused and insulted her in a loud voice, and beat her mercilessly. She wept and lamented, crying: ""I am sore all over, my head aches, my back aches, my buttocks ache. I shall climb a tree and jump down."" A day or two after the quarrel, she adorned herself, climbed a tree and cried aloud to her husband: ""Kabwaynaka, come here. Look at me as I see you. I never committed adultery. You beat and insulted me without reason. Now I shall kill myself."" The husband tried to reach her in time to stop her, but when he was half-way up the tree, she threw herself down and thus ended her life."	Evidence for	x	adult	"One day, returning home after a prolonged absence, he fell into a fury of jealousy; he accused and insulted her in a loud voice, and beat her mercilessly. She wept and lamented, crying: ""I am sore all over, my head aches, my back aches, my buttocks ache. I shall climb a tree and jump down."" A day or two after the quarrel, she adorned herself, climbed a tree and cried aloud to her husband: ""Kabwaynaka, come here. Look at me as I see you. I never committed adultery. You beat and insulted me without reason. Now I shall kill myself."""	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"One day, returning home after a prolonged absence, he fell into a fury of jealousy; he accused and insulted her in a loud voice, and beat her mercilessly. She wept and lamented, crying: ""I am sore all over, my head aches, my back aches, my buttocks ache. I shall climb a tree and jump down."" A day or two after the quarrel, she adorned herself, climbed a tree and cried aloud to her husband: ""Kabwaynaka, come here. Look at me as I see you. I never committed adultery. You beat and insulted me without reason. Now I shall kill myself."""	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	jumping	Kabwaynaka, come here. Look at me as I see you. I never committed adultery. You beat and insulted me without reason. Now I shall kill myself.	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	male	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	physical abuse	completion	x	Evidence for	severe	back and neck pain,headache	x	5	x	x		unknown	She wept and lamented, crying	Kabwaynaka, come here. Look at me as I see you. I never committed adultery. You beat and insulted me without reason. Now I shall kill myself.	x	x	not stated	1	x	The husband tried to reach her in time to stop her, but when he was half-way up the tree, she threw herself down and thus ended her life.	I am sore all over, my head aches, my back aches, my buttocks ache	No evidence	public	no	Evidence against		firsthand
445	syme	Case	Trobriands	"Isakapu, a fine-looking young woman, virtuous and hard-working, was, if we are to believe the testimony of historical gossip, quite faithful to her husband, yet wrongfully suspected by him. One day, returning home after a prolonged absence, he fell into a fury of jealousy; he accused and insulted her in a loud voice, and beat her mercilessly. She wept and lamented, crying: ""I am sore all over, my head aches, my back aches, my buttocks ache. I shall climb a tree and jump down."" A day or two after the quarrel, she adorned herself, climbed a tree and cried aloud to her husband: ""Kabwaynaka, come here. Look at me as I see you. I never committed adultery. You beat and insulted me without reason. Now I shall kill myself."" The husband tried to reach her in time to stop her, but when he was half-way up the tree, she threw herself down and thus ended her life."	Evidence for	x	young adult,adult	" Isakapu, a fine-looking young woman, virtuous and hard-working, was, if we are to believe the testimony of historical gossip, quite faithful to her husband, yet wrongfully suspected by him. One day, returning home after a prolonged absence, he fell into a fury of jealousy; he accused and insulted her in a loud voice, and beat her mercilessly. She wept and lamented, crying: ""I am sore all over, my head aches, my back aches, my buttocks ache. I shall climb a tree and jump down."" A day or two after the quarrel, she adorned herself, climbed a tree and cried aloud to her husband: ""Kabwaynaka, come here. Look at me as I see you. I never committed adultery. You beat and insulted me without reason. Now I shall kill myself."" The husband tried to reach her in time to stop her, but when he was half-way up the tree, she threw herself down and thus ended her life."	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	" Isakapu, a fine-looking young woman, virtuous and hard-working, was, if we are to believe the testimony of historical gossip, quite faithful to her husband, yet wrongfully suspected by him. One day, returning home after a prolonged absence, he fell into a fury of jealousy; he accused and insulted her in a loud voice, and beat her mercilessly. She wept and lamented, crying: ""I am sore all over, my head aches, my back aches, my buttocks ache. I shall climb a tree and jump down."" A day or two after the quarrel, she adorned herself, climbed a tree and cried aloud to her husband: ""Kabwaynaka, come here. Look at me as I see you. I never committed adultery. You beat and insulted me without reason. Now I shall kill myself."" The husband tried to reach her in time to stop her, but when he was half-way up the tree, she threw herself down and thus ended her life."	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	jumping	"A day or two after the quarrel, she adorned herself, climbed a tree and cried aloud to her husband: ""Kabwaynaka, come here. Look at me as I see you. I never committed adultery. You beat and insulted me without reason. Now I shall kill myself."" The husband tried to reach her in time to stop her, but when he was half-way up the tree, she threw herself down and thus ended her life."	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	husband	male	na	Evidence for	female	husband	Evidence for		physical abuse	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	The husband tried to reach her in time to stop her, but when he was half-way up the tree, she threw herself down and thus ended her life.	x	Evidence for	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	hearsay
446	zgarfield	Case	Trobriands	For some reason Bolobesa, one of the wives of Numakala, the predecessor of the present chief of Omarakana, left her husband for a time and returned to her own village, Yalumugwa. Her maternal uncle, Gumabudi, chief of that village, sent her back to her husband. She refused to go and turned back again half-way, although, I was told, she quite intended to return to her husband ultimately. Her uncle insisted, and insulted her so grossly that she committed suicide.	No evidence	x	adult	For some reason Bolobesa, one of the wives of Numakala, the predecessor of the present chief of Omarakana, left her husband for a time and returned to her own village, Yalumugwa. Her maternal uncle, Gumabudi, chief of that village, sent her back to her husband. She refused to go and turned back again half-way, although, I was told, she quite intended to return to her husband ultimately. Her uncle insisted, and insulted her so grossly that she committed suicide.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	For some reason Bolobesa, one of the wives of Numakala, the predecessor of the present chief of Omarakana, left her husband for a time and returned to her own village, Yalumugwa. Her maternal uncle, Gumabudi, chief of that village, sent her back to her husband. She refused to go and turned back again half-way, although, I was told, she quite intended to return to her husband ultimately. Her uncle insisted, and insulted her so grossly that she committed suicide.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	kin	male	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	insulted	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		firsthand
446	syme	Case	Trobriands	For some reason Bolobesa, one of the wives of Numakala, the predecessor of the present chief of Omarakana, left her husband for a time and returned to her own village, Yalumugwa. Her maternal uncle, Gumabudi, chief of that village, sent her back to her husband. She refused to go and turned back again half-way, although, I was told, she quite intended to return to her husband ultimately. Her uncle insisted, and insulted her so grossly that she committed suicide.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,unknown	For some reason Bolobesa, one of the wives of Numakala, the predecessor of the present chief of Omarakana, left her husband for a time and returned to her own village, Yalumugwa. Her maternal uncle, Gumabudi, chief of that village, sent her back to her husband. She refused to go and turned back again half-way, although, I was told, she quite intended to return to her husband ultimately. Her uncle insisted, and insulted her so grossly that she committed suicide.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	For some reason Bolobesa, one of the wives of Numakala, the predecessor of the present chief of Omarakana, left her husband for a time and returned to her own village, Yalumugwa. Her maternal uncle, Gumabudi, chief of that village, sent her back to her husband. She refused to go and turned back again half-way, although, I was told, she quite intended to return to her husband ultimately. Her uncle insisted, and insulted her so grossly that she committed suicide.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	uncle,spouse	male	na	Evidence for	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	polygyny	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	unknown
448	zgarfield	Cultural model	Trobriands	"A couple guilty of such an act [clan incest] would, if discovered, incur the anger of the whole community; they would be deeply mortified and terribly ashamed. And to the question ""What would they1 do on discovery?"" the invariable answer is that they would commit suicide by jumping from a coco-nut palm. This well-known method of escaping from an unpleasant situation is calledlo'u ."	No evidence	x	adult	"A couple guilty of such an act [clan incest] would, if discovered, incur the anger of the whole community; they would be deeply mortified and terribly ashamed. And to the question ""What would they1 do on discovery?"" the invariable answer is that they would commit suicide by jumping from a coco-nut palm. This well-known method of escaping from an unpleasant situation is calledlo'u"	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"A couple guilty of such an act [clan incest] would, if discovered, incur the anger of the whole community; they would be deeply mortified and terribly ashamed. And to the question ""What would they1 do on discovery?"" the invariable answer is that they would commit suicide by jumping from a coco-nut palm. This well-known method of escaping from an unpleasant situation is calledlo'u"	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	both		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	mortified and terribly ashamed	x	x	x	not stated	2	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence		na
448	syme	Cultural model	Trobriands	"A couple guilty of such an act [clan incest] would, if discovered, incur the anger of the whole community; they would be deeply mortified and terribly ashamed. And to the question ""What would they1 do on discovery?"" the invariable answer is that they would commit suicide by jumping from a coco-nut palm. This well-known method of escaping from an unpleasant situation is calledlo'u ."	No evidence	x	unknown	"A couple guilty of such an act [clan incest] would, if discovered, incur the anger of the whole community; they would be deeply mortified and terribly ashamed. And to the question ""What would they1 do on discovery?"" the invariable answer is that they would commit suicide by jumping from a coco-nut palm. This well-known method of escaping from an unpleasant situation is calledlo'u ."	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"A couple guilty of such an act [clan incest] would, if discovered, incur the anger of the whole community; they would be deeply mortified and terribly ashamed. And to the question ""What would they1 do on discovery?"" the invariable answer is that they would commit suicide by jumping from a coco-nut palm. This well-known method of escaping from an unpleasant situation is calledlo'u ."	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping	This well-known method of escaping from an unpleasant situation is calledlo'u .	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	social group	both	na	Evidence for	both	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	no	shame	x	x	x	not stated	2	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	low	na
449	zgarfield	Case	Trobriands	One day an outbreak of wailing and a great commotion told me that a death had occurred somewhere in the neighbourhood. I was informed that Kima'i, a young lad of my acquaintance, of sixteen or so, had fallen from a coco-nut palm and killed himself. I hastened to the next village where this had occurred, only to find the whole mortuary proceedings in progress. This was my first case of death, mourning, and burial, so that in my concern with the ethnographical aspects of the ceremonial, I forgot the circumstances of the tragedy even though one or two singular facts occurred at the same time in the village which should have aroused my suspicions. I found that another youth had been severely wounded by some mysterious coincidence. And at the funeral there was obviously a general feeling of hostility between the village where the boy died and that into which his body was carried for burial. Only much later was I able to discover the real meaning of these events: the boy had committed suicide. The truth was that he had broken the rules of exogamy, the partner in his crime being his maternal [p. 78] cousin, the daughter of his mother's sister. This had been known and generally disapproved of, but nothing was done until the girl's discarded lover, who had wanted to marry her and who felt personally injured, took the initiative. This rival threatened first to use black magic against the guilty youth, but this had not much effect. Then one evening he insulted the culprit in public--accusing him in the hearing of the whole community of incest and hurling at him certain expressions intolerable to a native. For this there was only one remedy; only one means of escape remained to the unfortunate youth. Next morning he put on festive attire and ornamentation, climbed a coco-nut palm and addressed the community, speaking from among the palm leaves and bidding them farewell. He explained the reasons for his desperate deed and also launched forth a veiled accusation against the man who had driven him to his death, upon which it became the duty of his clansmen to avenge him. Then he wailed aloud, as is the custom, jumped from a palm some sixty feet high and was killed on the spot. There followed a fight within the village in which the rival was wounded; and the quarrel was repeated during the funeral.	Evidence for	x	young adult	Only much later was I able to discover the real meaning of these events: the boy had committed suicide. The truth was that he had broken the rules of exogamy, the partner in his crime being his maternal [p. 78] cousin, the daughter of his mother's sister. This had been known and generally disapproved of, but nothing was done until the girl's discarded lover, who had wanted to marry her and who felt personally injured, took the initiative. 	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Only much later was I able to discover the real meaning of these events: the boy had committed suicide. The truth was that he had broken the rules of exogamy, the partner in his crime being his maternal [p. 78] cousin, the daughter of his mother's sister. This had been known and generally disapproved of, but nothing was done until the girl's discarded lover, who had wanted to marry her and who felt personally injured, took the initiative. 	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"He explained the reasons for his desperate deed and also launched forth a veiled accusation against the man who had driven him to his death, upon which it became the duty of his clansmen to avenge him. Then he wailed aloud, as is the custom, jumped from a palm some sixty feet high and was killed on the spot. There followed a fight within the village in which the rival was wounded; and the quarrel was repeated during the funeral.
"	x	Evidence for	public	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
449	syme	Case	Trobriands	One day an outbreak of wailing and a great commotion told me that a death had occurred somewhere in the neighbourhood. I was informed that Kima'i, a young lad of my acquaintance, of sixteen or so, had fallen from a coco-nut palm and killed himself. I hastened to the next village where this had occurred, only to find the whole mortuary proceedings in progress. This was my first case of death, mourning, and burial, so that in my concern with the ethnographical aspects of the ceremonial, I forgot the circumstances of the tragedy even though one or two singular facts occurred at the same time in the village which should have aroused my suspicions. I found that another youth had been severely wounded by some mysterious coincidence. And at the funeral there was obviously a general feeling of hostility between the village where the boy died and that into which his body was carried for burial. Only much later was I able to discover the real meaning of these events: the boy had committed suicide. The truth was that he had broken the rules of exogamy, the partner in his crime being his maternal [p. 78] cousin, the daughter of his mother's sister. This had been known and generally disapproved of, but nothing was done until the girl's discarded lover, who had wanted to marry her and who felt personally injured, took the initiative. This rival threatened first to use black magic against the guilty youth, but this had not much effect. Then one evening he insulted the culprit in public--accusing him in the hearing of the whole community of incest and hurling at him certain expressions intolerable to a native. For this there was only one remedy; only one means of escape remained to the unfortunate youth. Next morning he put on festive attire and ornamentation, climbed a coco-nut palm and addressed the community, speaking from among the palm leaves and bidding them farewell. He explained the reasons for his desperate deed and also launched forth a veiled accusation against the man who had driven him to his death, upon which it became the duty of his clansmen to avenge him. Then he wailed aloud, as is the custom, jumped from a palm some sixty feet high and was killed on the spot. There followed a fight within the village in which the rival was wounded; and the quarrel was repeated during the funeral.	No evidence	x	young adult	One day an outbreak of wailing and a great commotion told me that a death had occurred somewhere in the neighbourhood. I was informed that Kima'i, a young lad of my acquaintance, of sixteen or so, had fallen from a coco-nut palm and killed himself. I hastened to the next village where this had occurred, only to find the whole mortuary proceedings in progress. This was my first case of death, mourning, and burial, so that in my concern with the ethnographical aspects of the ceremonial, I forgot the circumstances of the tragedy even though one or two singular facts occurred at the same time in the village which should have aroused my suspicions. I found that another youth had been severely wounded by some mysterious coincidence. And at the funeral there was obviously a general feeling of hostility between the village where the boy died and that into which his body was carried for burial. Only much later was I able to discover the real meaning of these events: the boy had committed suicide. The truth was that he had broken the rules of exogamy, the partner in his crime being his maternal [p. 78] cousin, the daughter of his mother's sister. This had been known and generally disapproved of, but nothing was done until the girl's discarded lover, who had wanted to marry her and who felt personally injured, took the initiative. This rival threatened first to use black magic against the guilty youth, but this had not much effect. Then one evening he insulted the culprit in public--accusing him in the hearing of the whole community of incest and hurling at him certain expressions intolerable to a native. For this there was only one remedy; only one means of escape remained to the unfortunate youth. Next morning he put on festive attire and ornamentation, climbed a coco-nut palm and addressed the community, speaking from among the palm leaves and bidding them farewell. He explained the reasons for his desperate deed and also launched forth a veiled accusation against the man who had driven him to his death, upon which it became the duty of his clansmen to avenge him. Then he wailed aloud, as is the custom, jumped from a palm some sixty feet high and was killed on the spot. There followed a fight within the village in which the rival was wounded; and the quarrel was repeated during the funeral.	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	One day an outbreak of wailing and a great commotion told me that a death had occurred somewhere in the neighbourhood. I was informed that Kima'i, a young lad of my acquaintance, of sixteen or so, had fallen from a coco-nut palm and killed himself. I hastened to the next village where this had occurred, only to find the whole mortuary proceedings in progress. This was my first case of death, mourning, and burial, so that in my concern with the ethnographical aspects of the ceremonial, I forgot the circumstances of the tragedy even though one or two singular facts occurred at the same time in the village which should have aroused my suspicions. I found that another youth had been severely wounded by some mysterious coincidence. And at the funeral there was obviously a general feeling of hostility between the village where the boy died and that into which his body was carried for burial. Only much later was I able to discover the real meaning of these events: the boy had committed suicide. The truth was that he had broken the rules of exogamy, the partner in his crime being his maternal [p. 78] cousin, the daughter of his mother's sister. This had been known and generally disapproved of, but nothing was done until the girl's discarded lover, who had wanted to marry her and who felt personally injured, took the initiative. This rival threatened first to use black magic against the guilty youth, but this had not much effect. Then one evening he insulted the culprit in public--accusing him in the hearing of the whole community of incest and hurling at him certain expressions intolerable to a native. For this there was only one remedy; only one means of escape remained to the unfortunate youth. Next morning he put on festive attire and ornamentation, climbed a coco-nut palm and addressed the community, speaking from among the palm leaves and bidding them farewell. He explained the reasons for his desperate deed and also launched forth a veiled accusation against the man who had driven him to his death, upon which it became the duty of his clansmen to avenge him. Then he wailed aloud, as is the custom, jumped from a palm some sixty feet high and was killed on the spot. There followed a fight within the village in which the rival was wounded; and the quarrel was repeated during the funeral.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	jumping	For this there was only one remedy; only one means of escape remained to the unfortunate youth.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	ado_young_adult	sexual competitor	male	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence against		no evidence	completion	16	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	6	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	There followed a fight within the village in which the rival was wounded; and the quarrel was repeated during the funeral.	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	secondhand
450	zgarfield	Cultural model	Trobriands	If, on the contrary, scandal breaks out--every one turns against the guilty pair and by ostracism and insults one or the other may be driven to suicide.	No evidence	x	unknown	If, on the contrary, scandal breaks out--every one turns against the guilty pair and by ostracism and insults one or the other may be driven to suicide.	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	If, on the contrary, scandal breaks out--every one turns against the guilty pair and by ostracism and insults one or the other may be driven to suicide.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	0	x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
450	syme	Cultural model	Trobriands	If, on the contrary, scandal breaks out--every one turns against the guilty pair and by ostracism and insults one or the other may be driven to suicide.	No evidence	x	unknown	If, on the contrary, scandal breaks out--every one turns against the guilty pair and by ostracism and insults one or the other may be driven to suicide.	accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	If, on the contrary, scandal breaks out--every one turns against the guilty pair and by ostracism and insults one or the other may be driven to suicide.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	social group	na	na	Evidence for	both	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1 or 2	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	low	na
451	zgarfield	Cultural model	Trobriands	A means of escape from situations without an issue and the underlying mental attitude is somewhat complex, embracing the desire of self-punishment, revenge, re-habilitation, and sentimental grievance. Two motives must be registered in the psychology of suicide: first there is always some sin, crime or passionate outburst to expiate, whether a breach of exogamous rules, or adultery, or an unjust injury done, or an attempt to escape one's obligations; secondly, there is a protest against those who have brought this trespass to light, insulted the culprit in public, forced him into an unbearable situation.	No evidence	x	unknown	Two motives must be registered in the psychology of suicide: first there is always some sin, crime or passionate outburst to expiate, whether a breach of exogamous rules, or adultery, or an unjust injury done, or an attempt to escape one's obligations; secondly, there is a protest against those who have brought this trespass to light, insulted the culprit in public, forced him into an unbearable situation.	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Two motives must be registered in the psychology of suicide: first there is always some sin, crime or passionate outburst to expiate, whether a breach of exogamous rules, or adultery, or an unjust injury done, or an attempt to escape one's obligations; secondly, there is a protest against those who have brought this trespass to light, insulted the culprit in public, forced him into an unbearable situation.	unknown	etic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	A means of escape from situations without an issue and the underlying mental attitude is somewhat complex, embracing the desire of self-punishment, revenge, re-habilitation, and sentimental grievance.	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	insulted	A means of escape from situations without an issue and the underlying mental attitude is somewhat complex, embracing the desire of self-punishment, revenge, re-habilitation, and sentimental grievance...secondly, there is a protest against those who have brought this trespass to light, insulted the culprit in public, forced him into an unbearable situation.	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		na
451	syme	Cultural model	Trobriands	A means of escape from situations without an issue and the underlying mental attitude is somewhat complex, embracing the desire of self-punishment, revenge, re-habilitation, and sentimental grievance. Two motives must be registered in the psychology of suicide: first there is always some sin, crime or passionate outburst to expiate, whether a breach of exogamous rules, or adultery, or an unjust injury done, or an attempt to escape one's obligations; secondly, there is a protest against those who have brought this trespass to light, insulted the culprit in public, forced him into an unbearable situation.	No evidence	x	unknown	A means of escape from situations without an issue and the underlying mental attitude is somewhat complex, embracing the desire of self-punishment, revenge, re-habilitation, and sentimental grievance. Two motives must be registered in the psychology of suicide: first there is always some sin, crime or passionate outburst to expiate, whether a breach of exogamous rules, or adultery, or an unjust injury done, or an attempt to escape one's obligations; secondly, there is a protest against those who have brought this trespass to light, insulted the culprit in public, forced him into an unbearable situation.	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	A means of escape from situations without an issue and the underlying mental attitude is somewhat complex, embracing the desire of self-punishment, revenge, re-habilitation, and sentimental grievance. Two motives must be registered in the psychology of suicide: first there is always some sin, crime or passionate outburst to expiate, whether a breach of exogamous rules, or adultery, or an unjust injury done, or an attempt to escape one's obligations; secondly, there is a protest against those who have brought this trespass to light, insulted the culprit in public, forced him into an unbearable situation.	unknown	etic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	A means of escape from situations without an issue and the underlying mental attitude is somewhat complex, embracing the desire of self-punishment, revenge, re-habilitation, and sentimental grievance. Two motives must be registered in the psychology of suicide: first there is always some sin, crime or passionate outburst to expiate, whether a breach of exogamous rules, or adultery, or an unjust injury done, or an attempt to escape one's obligations; secondly, there is a protest against those who have brought this trespass to light, insulted the culprit in public, forced him into an unbearable situation.	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
452	zgarfield	Case	Trobriands	During my stay one young man committed suicide in thelo'u manner in a neighbouring village. Though I saw the corpse a few hours after death, and was present at the wailing and burial and all the mortuary ceremonies, it was only after a few months that I learned he had committed suicide, and I never could learn his motive.	No evidence	x	young adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence		No evidence		na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	x	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	wailing and burial and all the mortuary ceremonies	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
452	syme	Case	Trobriands	During my stay one young man committed suicide in thelo'u manner in a neighbouring village. Though I saw the corpse a few hours after death, and was present at the wailing and burial and all the mortuary ceremonies, it was only after a few months that I learned he had committed suicide, and I never could learn his motive.	No evidence	x	young adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	secondhand
453	zgarfield	Cultural model	Trobriands	Suicide seems to be very common.1 It is performed as an act of justice, not upon oneself, but upon some person of near kindred who has caused offence. As such it is one of the most important legal institutions among these natives. Mr. Johns [a missionary] tells me that suicides occur in epidemics, and that they have been fostered by the discovery by the natives of the white man's power to counteract the poison. The aim of the suicide is to punish the survivors, or some of them. This poison is prepared from the roots of a cultivated vine; its action is not very rapid, and if emetics be properly administered in time life is usually saved.	No evidence	x	unknown	It is performed as an act of justice, not upon oneself, but upon some person of near kindred who has caused offence. 	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	It is performed as an act of justice, not upon oneself, but upon some person of near kindred who has caused offence. 	unknown	etic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na		na	No evidence	poisoning	The aim of the suicide is to punish the survivors, or some of them.	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	This poison is prepared from the roots of a cultivated vine; its action is not very rapid, and if emetics be properly administered in time life is usually saved.		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"This poison is prepared from the roots of a cultivated vine; its action is not very rapid, and if emetics be properly administered in time life is usually saved.
"	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
453	syme	Cultural model	Trobriands	Suicide seems to be very common.1 It is performed as an act of justice, not upon oneself, but upon some person of near kindred who has caused offence. As such it is one of the most important legal institutions among these natives. Mr. Johns [a missionary] tells me that suicides occur in epidemics, and that they have been fostered by the discovery by the natives of the white man's power to counteract the poison. The aim of the suicide is to punish the survivors, or some of them. This poison is prepared from the roots of a cultivated vine; its action is not very rapid, and if emetics be properly administered in time life is usually saved.	No evidence	x	unknown	Suicide seems to be very common.1 It is performed as an act of justice, not upon oneself, but upon some person of near kindred who has caused offence. As such it is one of the most important legal institutions among these natives. Mr. Johns [a missionary] tells me that suicides occur in epidemics, and that they have been fostered by the discovery by the natives of the white man's power to counteract the poison. The aim of the suicide is to punish the survivors, or some of them. This poison is prepared from the roots of a cultivated vine; its action is not very rapid, and if emetics be properly administered in time life is usually saved.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Suicide seems to be very common.1 It is performed as an act of justice, not upon oneself, but upon some person of near kindred who has caused offence. As such it is one of the most important legal institutions among these natives. Mr. Johns [a missionary] tells me that suicides occur in epidemics, and that they have been fostered by the discovery by the natives of the white man's power to counteract the poison. The aim of the suicide is to punish the survivors, or some of them. This poison is prepared from the roots of a cultivated vine; its action is not very rapid, and if emetics be properly administered in time life is usually saved.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	poisoning	Suicide seems to be very common.1 It is performed as an act of justice, not upon oneself, but upon some person of near kindred who has caused offence. As such it is one of the most important legal institutions among these natives. Mr. Johns [a missionary] tells me that suicides occur in epidemics, and that they have been fostered by the discovery by the natives of the white man's power to counteract the poison. The aim of the suicide is to punish the survivors, or some of them. 	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	kin	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown	kin	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
454	zgarfield	Cultural model	Trobriands	In many instances the desire for suicide arises from quite trivial causes, and the relatives frequently endeavour to frustrate attempts.1	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	etic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x			x		unknown	x	x	x   	x	not stated	1	x	In many instances the desire for suicide arises from quite trivial causes, and the relatives frequently endeavour to frustrate attempts	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence against		firsthand
454	syme	Cultural model	Trobriands	In many instances the desire for suicide arises from quite trivial causes, and the relatives frequently endeavour to frustrate attempts.1	No evidence	x	unknown	In many instances the desire for suicide arises from quite trivial causes, and the relatives frequently endeavour to frustrate attempts.1	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	etic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	In many instances the desire for suicide arises from quite trivial causes, and the relatives frequently endeavour to frustrate attempts.1	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
455	zgarfield	Cultural model	Trobriands	Disputes are the concern of the kin and friends of those involved, and no one else, though public opinion may be appealed to. 2 It is the collective responsibility of the lineage group to take reprisals or settle compensation. 3 If it is a question such that an individual's kin group cannot, or will not, mobilize in his or her support, then the only remedy is suicide.	No evidence	x	unknown	 Disputes are the concern of the kin and friends of those involved, and no one else, though public opinion may be appealed to. 2 It is the collective responsibility of the lineage group to take reprisals or settle compensation. 3 If it is a question such that an individual's kin group cannot, or will not, mobilize in his or her support, then the only remedy is suicide.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 Disputes are the concern of the kin and friends of those involved, and no one else, though public opinion may be appealed to. 2 It is the collective responsibility of the lineage group to take reprisals or settle compensation. 3 If it is a question such that an individual's kin group cannot, or will not, mobilize in his or her support, then the only remedy is suicide.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	Evidence for	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence against		firsthand
455	syme	Cultural model	Trobriands	Disputes are the concern of the kin and friends of those involved, and no one else, though public opinion may be appealed to. 2 It is the collective responsibility of the lineage group to take reprisals or settle compensation. 3 If it is a question such that an individual's kin group cannot, or will not, mobilize in his or her support, then the only remedy is suicide.	No evidence	x	unknown	Disputes are the concern of the kin and friends of those involved, and no one else, though public opinion may be appealed to. 2 It is the collective responsibility of the lineage group to take reprisals or settle compensation. 3 If it is a question such that an individual's kin group cannot, or will not, mobilize in his or her support, then the only remedy is suicide.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Disputes are the concern of the kin and friends of those involved, and no one else, though public opinion may be appealed to. 2 It is the collective responsibility of the lineage group to take reprisals or settle compensation. 3 If it is a question such that an individual's kin group cannot, or will not, mobilize in his or her support, then the only remedy is suicide.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	low	unknown
457	zgarfield	Cultural model	Trobriands	In the olden days--on this all my informants were unanimous--he would have committed suicide [for having killed his brother]. When such action is as drastic as fratricide, it evokes the extreme sanction of suicide, there being a general expectation that a man can expiate for outrageously killing a brother only by also taking [p. 76] his own life.	Evidence for	x	adult	In the olden days--on this all my informants were unanimous--he would have committed suicide [for having killed his brother]. When such action is as drastic as fratricide, it evokes the extreme sanction of suicide, there being a general expectation that a man can expiate for outrageously killing a brother only by also taking [p. 76] his own life.	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	In the olden days--on this all my informants were unanimous--he would have committed suicide [for having killed his brother]. When such action is as drastic as fratricide, it evokes the extreme sanction of suicide, there being a general expectation that a man can expiate for outrageously killing a brother only by also taking [p. 76] his own life.	approvingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	"When such action is as drastic as fratricide, it evokes the extreme sanction of suicide, there being a general expectation that a man can expiate for outrageously killing a brother only by also taking [p. 76] his own life.
"	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	having killed his brother		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		na
457	syme	Cultural model	Trobriands	In the olden days--on this all my informants were unanimous--he would have committed suicide [for having killed his brother]. When such action is as drastic as fratricide, it evokes the extreme sanction of suicide, there being a general expectation that a man can expiate for outrageously killing a brother only by also taking [p. 76] his own life.	No evidence	x	unknown	In the olden days--on this all my informants were unanimous--he would have committed suicide [for having killed his brother]. When such action is as drastic as fratricide, it evokes the extreme sanction of suicide, there being a general expectation that a man can expiate for outrageously killing a brother only by also taking [p. 76] his own life.	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	In the olden days--on this all my informants were unanimous--he would have committed suicide [for having killed his brother]. When such action is as drastic as fratricide, it evokes the extreme sanction of suicide, there being a general expectation that a man can expiate for outrageously killing a brother only by also taking [p. 76] his own life.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	homicide: brother	x	x	x	commit homicide	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	na
458	zgarfield	Case	Aymara	My informant had heard of a case of suicide in the [p. 51] city of Oruro, so that the notion is not completely unheard of despite the fact that it is altogether alien to the Aymara mentality.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		secondhand
458	syme	Case	Aymara	My informant had heard of a case of suicide in the [p. 51] city of Oruro, so that the notion is not completely unheard of despite the fact that it is altogether alien to the Aymara mentality.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	0	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	hearsay
460	zgarfield	Cultural model	Aymara	"The surviving spouse sometimes wants to die. The widow [p. 384] might say 'I ought to die myself' (""La mujer; 'Yo debo morirme""). Note that she does not say 'I ought to kill myself', which is a different conception together. The husband might also wish to die if his wife has died (""Marido tambien""). They speak from affliction, from sadness (""De pena, de triste, hablan"")."	No evidence	x	adult	"The surviving spouse sometimes wants to die. The widow [p. 384] might say 'I ought to die myself' (""La mujer; 'Yo debo morirme""). Note that she does not say 'I ought to kill myself', which is a different conception together. The husband might also wish to die if his wife has died (""Marido tambien""). They speak from affliction, from sadness (""De pena, de triste, hablan"")."	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	both		No evidence	Evidence for	death of a loved one	ideation	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	sadness 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		na
460	syme	Cultural model	Aymara	"The surviving spouse sometimes wants to die. The widow [p. 384] might say 'I ought to die myself' (""La mujer; 'Yo debo morirme""). Note that she does not say 'I ought to kill myself', which is a different conception together. The husband might also wish to die if his wife has died (""Marido tambien""). They speak from affliction, from sadness (""De pena, de triste, hablan"")."	No evidence	x	unknown	"The surviving spouse sometimes wants to die. The widow [p. 384] might say 'I ought to die myself' (""La mujer; 'Yo debo morirme""). Note that she does not say 'I ought to kill myself', which is a different conception together. The husband might also wish to die if his wife has died (""Marido tambien""). They speak from affliction, from sadness (""De pena, de triste, hablan"")."	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	spouse	No evidence		no evidence	ideation	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
461	zgarfield	Cultural model	Aymara	Suicides and attempted suicides are rare but known, sometimes occurring over broken love affairs.	No evidence	x	adult	uicides and attempted suicides are rare but known, sometimes occurring over broken love affairs.	rejection	No evidence	na	Evidence for	uicides and attempted suicides are rare but known, sometimes occurring over broken love affairs.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	social partners	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		na
461	syme	Cultural model	Aymara	Suicides and attempted suicides are rare but known, sometimes occurring over broken love affairs.	No evidence	x	young adult,unknown	Suicides and attempted suicides are rare but known, sometimes occurring over broken love affairs.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
462	zgarfield	Case	Aymara	Suicide is likewise unusual, and the three instances reported suggest that the Aymara attempts to take his life only under the severest emotional stress, and that suicide is, generally speaking, non-institutionalized and unpatterned.	No evidence	x	adult	Suicide is likewise unusual, and the three instances reported suggest that the Aymara attempts to take his life only under the severest emotional stress, and that suicide is, generally speaking, non-institutionalized and unpatterned.	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	x	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	stress	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
462	syme	Case	Aymara	Suicide is likewise unusual, and the three instances reported suggest that the Aymara attempts to take his life only under the severest emotional stress, and that suicide is, generally speaking, non-institutionalized and unpatterned.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	0	x	x	x	unknown	emotional distress	x	x	x	not stated	3,rate	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
463	zgarfield	Cultural model	Aymara	Suicide is likewise unusual, and the three instances reported suggest that the Aymara attempts to take his life only under the severest emotional stress, and that suicide is, generally speaking, non-institutionalized and unpatterned.																																No evidence				No evidence																		x																								
463	syme	Cultural model	Aymara	Suicide is likewise unusual, and the three instances reported suggest that the Aymara attempts to take his life only under the severest emotional stress, and that suicide is, generally speaking, non-institutionalized and unpatterned.	No evidence	x	na	Suicide is likewise unusual, and the three instances reported suggest that the Aymara attempts to take his life only under the severest emotional stress, and that suicide is, generally speaking, non-institutionalized and unpatterned.	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	the severest emotional stress	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
464	zgarfield	Case	Bahia Brazilians	Usually the couple who break this taboo are highly censured by the rest of the community, for the wife, if she finds out, tells her friends about it. In one case which occurred in Vila Recncavo during the author's stay, the woman was so ashamed and frightened by the sin she had committed that she killed herself by drinking rat poison.	No evidence	x	adult	In one case which occurred in Vila Recncavo during the author's stay, the woman was so ashamed and frightened by the sin she had committed that she killed herself by drinking rat poison.	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Usually the couple who break this taboo are highly censured by the rest of the community, for the wife, if she finds out, tells her friends about it. In one case which occurred in Vila Recncavo during the author's stay, the woman was so ashamed and frightened by the sin she had committed that she killed herself by drinking rat poison.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	poisoning	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		unknown	ashamed and frightened 	the woman was so ashamed and frightened by the sin she had committed that she killed herself by drinking rat poison.	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
464	syme	Case	Bahia Brazilians	Usually the couple who break this taboo are highly censured by the rest of the community, for the wife, if she finds out, tells her friends about it. In one case which occurred in Vila Recncavo during the author's stay, the woman was so ashamed and frightened by the sin she had committed that she killed herself by drinking rat poison.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,unknown	Usually the couple who break this taboo are highly censured by the rest of the community, for the wife, if she finds out, tells her friends about it. In one case which occurred in Vila Recncavo during the author's stay, the woman was so ashamed and frightened by the sin she had committed that she killed herself by drinking rat poison.	accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	Evidence for	poisoning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	social group	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	unknown	shame	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	low	firsthand
465	zgarfield	Case	Bahia Brazilians	In fact, Antonil suggests that the furnaces were a place of punishment. Runaways or recalcitrant [p. 145] slaves were placed at the furnaces in chains to work their resistance out of them. The method did not always produce the desired results. In 1626, the overseer at Engenho Santana bought a runaway and placed him at the furnaces to break him to the mill's discipline. The slave committed suicide by throwing himself in the furnace.72	Evidence for	x	adult	In 1626, the overseer at Engenho Santana bought a runaway and placed him at the furnaces to break him to the mill's discipline. The slave committed suicide by throwing himself in the furnace.72	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	In 1626, the overseer at Engenho Santana bought a runaway and placed him at the furnaces to break him to the mill's discipline. The slave committed suicide by throwing himself in the furnace.72	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	burning	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	captors	male	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence		unknown
465	syme	Case	Bahia Brazilians	In fact, Antonil suggests that the furnaces were a place of punishment. Runaways or recalcitrant [p. 145] slaves were placed at the furnaces in chains to work their resistance out of them. The method did not always produce the desired results. In 1626, the overseer at Engenho Santana bought a runaway and placed him at the furnaces to break him to the mill's discipline. The slave committed suicide by throwing himself in the furnace.72	Evidence for	x	unknown	In fact, Antonil suggests that the furnaces were a place of punishment. Runaways or recalcitrant [p. 145] slaves were placed at the furnaces in chains to work their resistance out of them. The method did not always produce the desired results. In 1626, the overseer at Engenho Santana bought a runaway and placed him at the furnaces to break him to the mill's discipline. The slave committed suicide by throwing himself in the furnace.72	interpersonal confli,enslavement_capture	No evidence	na	Evidence for	In fact, Antonil suggests that the furnaces were a place of punishment. Runaways or recalcitrant [p. 145] slaves were placed at the furnaces in chains to work their resistance out of them. The method did not always produce the desired results. In 1626, the overseer at Engenho Santana bought a runaway and placed him at the furnaces to break him to the mill's discipline. The slave committed suicide by throwing himself in the furnace.72	na	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	burning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	slave owners	na	na	No evidence	male	x	Evidence against		physical abuse	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	runaway and recaptured	4	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	low	documented_account
466	zgarfield	Case	Bahia Brazilians	"Ship captain Felipe Nery reported from Pernambuco in 1812 that he had lost three of his human cargo when on entering the River Zaire three men who had suffered a flogging had ""despairingly thrown themselves into the sea."""	Evidence for	x	adult	"Ship captain Felipe Nery reported from Pernambuco in 1812 that he had lost three of his human cargo when on entering the River Zaire three men who had suffered a flogging had ""despairingly thrown themselves into the sea."""	enslavement_capture,other	No evidence	na		"Ship captain Felipe Nery reported from Pernambuco in 1812 that he had lost three of his human cargo when on entering the River Zaire three men who had suffered a flogging had ""despairingly thrown themselves into the sea."""	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements,drowning	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	captors	female	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	3	x	x	suffered a flogging 	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
466	syme	Case	Bahia Brazilians	"Ship captain Felipe Nery reported from Pernambuco in 1812 that he had lost three of his human cargo when on entering the River Zaire three men who had suffered a flogging had ""despairingly thrown themselves into the sea."""	Evidence for	x	young adult,adult,unknown	" Ship captain Felipe Nery reported from Pernambuco in 1812 that he had lost three of his human cargo when on entering the River Zaire three men who had suffered a flogging had ""despairingly thrown themselves into the sea."" Ship captain Felipe Nery reported from Pernambuco in 1812 that he had lost three of his human cargo when on entering the River Zaire three men who had suffered a flogging had ""despairingly thrown themselves into the sea."""	interpersonal confli,enslavement_capture,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	" Ship captain Felipe Nery reported from Pernambuco in 1812 that he had lost three of his human cargo when on entering the River Zaire three men who had suffered a flogging had ""despairingly thrown themselves into the sea."""	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	drowning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	slaver owners	male	na	No evidence	unknown	x	Evidence against		physical abuse,witness violence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	x	unknown	despair	"""despairingly..."""	x	x	not stated	3	x	x	x	Evidence for	public	no	Evidence for	low	secondhand
467	zgarfield	Cultural model	Bahia Brazilians	Despair in the face of enslavement led to suicides on slave ships and on plantations.	Evidence for	x	adult	Despair in the face of enslavement led to suicides on slave ships and on plantations.	enslavement_capture	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Despair in the face of enslavement led to suicides on slave ships and on plantations.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	captors	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	other	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	despair	Despair in the face of enslavement led to suicides on slave ships and on plantations.	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence		na
467	syme	Cultural model	Bahia Brazilians	Despair in the face of enslavement led to suicides on slave ships and on plantations.	Evidence for	x	unknown	Despair in the face of enslavement led to suicides on slave ships and on plantations.	interpersonal confli,enslavement_capture	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Despair in the face of enslavement led to suicides on slave ships and on plantations.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	slave owners	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	Evidence against		physical abuse,witness violence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	Despair in the face of enslavement led to suicides on slave ships and on plantations.	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	low	unknown
468	zgarfield	Cultural model	Bakairi	Exile was considered severe punishment, for the Bacair say that individuals who were exiled often committed suicide.	Evidence for	x	adult	Exile was considered severe punishment, for the Bacair say that individuals who were exiled often committed suicide.	rejection	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Exile was considered severe punishment, for the Bacair say that individuals who were exiled often committed suicide.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for		na
468	syme	Cultural model	Bakairi	Exile was considered severe punishment, for the Bacair say that individuals who were exiled often committed suicide.	No evidence	x	unknown	Exile was considered severe punishment, for the Bacair say that individuals who were exiled often committed suicide.	rejection,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		social group	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown		Evidence for	low	na
469	zgarfield	Case	Guaran	Over a sixteen-month period ending in 1991, thirty-four suicides and thirty-six attempted suicides were recorded in a Guaran population of 7,300.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	unknown	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	attempt,completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		documented_account
469	syme	Case	Guaran	Over a sixteen-month period ending in 1991, thirty-four suicides and thirty-six attempted suicides were recorded in a Guaran population of 7,300.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	attempt,completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	34,36/7,300	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	documented_account
471	zgarfield	Cultural model	Guaran	The loss of power within the developing rural system affects the psychological state of the Chirip. Reports by the Brazilian National Indigenous People's Foundation (FUNAI) concerning Guaran communities in western Brazil, where rural development is more advanced and indigenous communities more debilitated, have suggested that suicide has reached epidemic proportions. Alcohol often becomes a problem for the displaced and indebted.	No evidence	x	unknown	Reports by the Brazilian National Indigenous People's Foundation (FUNAI) concerning Guaran communities in western Brazil, where rural development is more advanced and indigenous communities more debilitated, have suggested that suicide has reached epidemic proportions	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		unknown
471	syme	Cultural model	Guaran	The loss of power within the developing rural system affects the psychological state of the Chirip. Reports by the Brazilian National Indigenous People's Foundation (FUNAI) concerning Guaran communities in western Brazil, where rural development is more advanced and indigenous communities more debilitated, have suggested that suicide has reached epidemic proportions. Alcohol often becomes a problem for the displaced and indebted.	No evidence	x	unknown	"The loss of power within the developing rural system affects the psychological state of the Chirip. Reports by the Brazilian National Indigenous People's Foundation (FUNAI) concerning Guaran communities in western Brazil, where rural development is more advanced and indigenous communities more debilitated, have suggested that suicide has reached epidemic proportions.
"	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	high suicide rate,poverty,associ. alcoholism	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
473	zgarfield	Case	Kogi	"Later I discovered that his first wife had ""flattened"" his only child and had committed suicide shortly thereafter, hanging herself near the house."	Evidence for	x	adult	"Later I discovered that his first wife had ""flattened"" his only child and had committed suicide shortly thereafter, hanging herself near the house.
"	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	hanging	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	death of a loved one	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		secondhand
473	syme	Case	Kogi	"Later I discovered that his first wife had ""flattened"" his only child and had committed suicide shortly thereafter, hanging herself near the house."	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	"Later I discovered that his first wife had ""flattened"" his only child and had committed suicide shortly thereafter, hanging herself near the house."	accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		accident,perpetrate violence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	"Later I discovered that his first wife had ""flattened"" his only child and had committed suicide shortly thereafter, hanging herself near the house."	4	x	x	commit homicide (possibly accident)	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	secondhand
474	zgarfield	Case	Kogi	In one case we learned of a woman who committed suicide because of her sterility.	No evidence	x	adult	 In one case we learned of a woman who committed suicide because of her sterility.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	 In one case we learned of a woman who committed suicide because of her sterility.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	chronic	other	x		x	x		unknown	x	 In one case we learned of a woman who committed suicide because of her sterility.	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	 In one case we learned of a woman who committed suicide because of her sterility.	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		secondhand
474	syme	Case	Kogi	In one case we learned of a woman who committed suicide because of her sterility.	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	In one case we learned of a woman who committed suicide because of her sterility.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	In one case we learned of a woman who committed suicide because of her sterility.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
475	zgarfield	Cultural model	Kogi	"One form of aggression which is rather frequent among the Kogi is suicide, which was mentioned in this tribe as early as the sixteenth century, as an extreme attitude when faced with frustrating situations. Among the men the motive is almost always ""rage"" caused by adultery or desertion by the wife, by the death of children, or by exceptionally bad economic situations."	No evidence	x	adult	"Among the men the motive is almost always ""rage"" caused by adultery or desertion by the wife, by the death of children, or by exceptionally bad economic situations."	death loved one,rejection,resource loss	No evidence	na	No evidence	"Among the men the motive is almost always ""rage"" caused by adultery or desertion by the wife, by the death of children, or by exceptionally bad economic situations."	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	"Among the men the motive is almost always ""rage"" caused by adultery or desertion by the wife, by the death of children, or by exceptionally bad economic situations."	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	rage	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		na
475	syme	Cultural model	Kogi	"One form of aggression which is rather frequent among the Kogi is suicide, which was mentioned in this tribe as early as the sixteenth century, as an extreme attitude when faced with frustrating situations. Among the men the motive is almost always ""rage"" caused by adultery or desertion by the wife, by the death of children, or by exceptionally bad economic situations."	No evidence	x	young adult,adult	"One form of aggression which is rather frequent among the Kogi is suicide, which was mentioned in this tribe as early as the sixteenth century, as an extreme attitude when faced with frustrating situations. Among the men the motive is almost always ""rage"" caused by adultery or desertion by the wife, by the death of children, or by exceptionally bad economic situations."	interpersonal confli,death loved one,rejection,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"One form of aggression which is rather frequent among the Kogi is suicide, which was mentioned in this tribe as early as the sixteenth century, as an extreme attitude when faced with frustrating situations. Among the men the motive is almost always ""rage"" caused by adultery or desertion by the wife, by the death of children, or by exceptionally bad economic situations."	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	"One form of aggression which is rather frequent among the Kogi is suicide, which was mentioned in this tribe as early as the sixteenth century, as an extreme attitude when faced with frustrating situations. Among the men the motive is almost always ""rage"" caused by adultery or desertion by the wife, by the death of children, or by exceptionally bad economic situations."	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	ado_young_adult,adult	wife	female	na	Evidence for	male	child	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	rage	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
476	zgarfield	Cultural model	Kogi	"Children sometimes commit suicide, also out of ""fear"" of punishment, but evidently in every case it was a matter of orphan children during puberty. It had never been heard that a Mma had committed suicide."	No evidence	x	child	"Children sometimes commit suicide, also out of ""fear"" of punishment, but evidently in every case it was a matter of orphan children during puberty."	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	"Children sometimes commit suicide, also out of ""fear"" of punishment, but evidently in every case it was a matter of orphan children during puberty."	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	"Children sometimes commit suicide, also out of ""fear"" of punishment, but evidently in every case it was a matter of orphan children during puberty."	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	social superior	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		no	fear	"Children sometimes commit suicide, also out of ""fear"" of punishment, but evidently in every case it was a matter of orphan children during puberty."	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
476	syme	Cultural model	Kogi	"Children sometimes commit suicide, also out of ""fear"" of punishment, but evidently in every case it was a matter of orphan children during puberty. It had never been heard that a Mma had committed suicide."	No evidence	x	child,young adult	"Children sometimes commit suicide, also out of ""fear"" of punishment, but evidently in every case it was a matter of orphan children during puberty. It had never been heard that a Mma had committed suicide."	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Children sometimes commit suicide, also out of ""fear"" of punishment, but evidently in every case it was a matter of orphan children during puberty. It had never been heard that a Mma had committed suicide."		unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	"Children sometimes commit suicide, also out of ""fear"" of punishment"	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	unknown	unknown	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	<15	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	no	fear	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	private	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	na
477	zgarfield	Cultural model	Kogi	"amorous deceptions as motives for suicide."""	No evidence	x	unknown	"amorous deceptions as motives for suicide."""	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	"amorous deceptions as motives for suicide."""	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	"amorous deceptions as motives for suicide."""	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		unknown
477	syme	Cultural model	Kogi	"amorous deceptions as motives for suicide."""	No evidence	x	unknown	"Women commit suicide ""out of fear,"" when discovered in adultery or when they have been sick for a long time."	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	mate/potential mate	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
478	zgarfield	Cultural model	Kogi	"Boredom: ""In addition to ""fear"" and ""rage"" they cite ""boredom"" and amorous deceptions as motives for suicide."""	No evidence	x	unknown	"Boredom: ""In addition to ""fear"" and ""rage"" they cite ""boredom"" and amorous deceptions as motives for suicide."""	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	"Boredom: ""In addition to ""fear"" and ""rage"" they cite ""boredom"" and amorous deceptions as motives for suicide."""	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	"Boredom: ""In addition to ""fear"" and ""rage"" they cite ""boredom"" and amorous deceptions as motives for suicide."""	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	fear boredom rage 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
478	syme	Cultural model	Kogi	"Boredom: ""In addition to ""fear"" and ""rage"" they cite ""boredom"" and amorous deceptions as motives for suicide."""	No evidence	x	unknown	boredom	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
479	zgarfield	Cultural model	Kogi	There is suicide by men, women, and even children as an extreme act when faced with frustrating situations.	No evidence	x	child,young adult,adult	There is suicide by men, women, and even children as an extreme act when faced with frustrating situations.	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	There is suicide by men, women, and even children as an extreme act when faced with frustrating situations.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	There is suicide by men, women, and even children as an extreme act when faced with frustrating situations.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	both		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	frustrating 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
479	syme	Cultural model	Kogi	There is suicide by men, women, and even children as an extreme act when faced with frustrating situations.	No evidence	x	child,young adult,adult,elderly	There is suicide by men, women, and even children as an extreme act when faced with frustrating situations.	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	both	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	frustration	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
480	zgarfield	Cultural model	Kogi	Suicide is considered a social and religious offense, since the individual is thus trying to escape from his responsibilities.	No evidence	x	unknown	Suicide is considered a social and religious offense, since the individual is thus trying to escape from his responsibilities.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	Suicide is considered a social and religious offense, since the individual is thus trying to escape from his responsibilities.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence		na
480	syme	Cultural model	Kogi	Suicide is considered a social and religious offense, since the individual is thus trying to escape from his responsibilities.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	Suicide is considered a social and religious offense, since the individual is thus trying to escape from his responsibilities.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
481	zgarfield	Cultural model	Mataco	A person who feels himself rejected or a victim of unhappy love sometimes commits suicide, which with the Mataco appears to occur particularly in this connexion and is always done in the same manner. The unfortunate one goes alone into the forest and collects the very poisonous fruit of the sacha sandia (Capparis salicifolia), which the Indian then cooks lightly and eats. After a few hours when no remedy is possible, the Indian returns home and lies down to sleep. Death comes very shortly. In cases of suicide the spouse of the dead person will always be pointed to as the one responsible. In consequence, the family of the dead person will in many cases start a campaign against that of the spouse to obtain blood vengeance or, more probably, to secure economic compensation.	Evidence for	x	adult	A person who feels himself rejected or a victim of unhappy love sometimes commits suicide, which with the Mataco appears to occur particularly in this connexion and is always done in the same manner. 	interpersonal confli,rejection	No evidence	na	Evidence for	A person who feels himself rejected or a victim of unhappy love sometimes commits suicide, which with the Mataco appears to occur particularly in this connexion and is always done in the same manner. 	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	unknown	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	poisoning	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x			rejected	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"After a few hours when no remedy is possible, the Indian returns home and lies down to sleep. Death comes very shortly. In cases of suicide the spouse of the dead person will always be pointed to as the one responsible. In consequence, the family of the dead person will in many cases start a campaign against that of the spouse to obtain blood vengeance or, more probably, to secure economic compensation.
"	x	No evidence	public	unknown	Evidence against		na
481	syme	Cultural model	Mataco	A person who feels himself rejected or a victim of unhappy love sometimes commits suicide, which with the Mataco appears to occur particularly in this connexion and is always done in the same manner. The unfortunate one goes alone into the forest and collects the very poisonous fruit of the sacha sandia (Capparis salicifolia), which the Indian then cooks lightly and eats. After a few hours when no remedy is possible, the Indian returns home and lies down to sleep. Death comes very shortly. In cases of suicide the spouse of the dead person will always be pointed to as the one responsible. In consequence, the family of the dead person will in many cases start a campaign against that of the spouse to obtain blood vengeance or, more probably, to secure economic compensation.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,unknown	A person who feels himself rejected or a victim of unhappy love sometimes commits suicide, which with the Mataco appears to occur particularly in this connexion and is always done in the same manner. The unfortunate one goes alone into the forest and collects the very poisonous fruit of the sacha sandia (Capparis salicifolia), which the Indian then cooks lightly and eats. After a few hours when no remedy is possible, the Indian returns home and lies down to sleep. Death comes very shortly. In cases of suicide the spouse of the dead person will always be pointed to as the one responsible. In consequence, the family of the dead person will in many cases start a campaign against that of the spouse to obtain blood vengeance or, more probably, to secure economic compensation.	rejection,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for		na	na	na	Evidence for	poisoning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	spouse	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	A person who feels himself rejected 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	In consequence, the family of the dead person will in many cases start a campaign against that of the spouse to obtain blood vengeance or, more probably, to secure economic compensation.	x	No evidence	private	no	Evidence for	low,unknown	na
482	zgarfield	Case	Mataco	"Immediately after the death of a young man who had committed suicide in the village of San Patricio, his mother crouched on the earth, placed the dead boy's head on her knees and began to grieve for him, saying repeatedly the word ""yos,"" ""yos"" (my son, my son). The father beat a drum, day and night in accompaniment of a dirge in which the expression ""yos,"" ""yos,"" was much in evidence. A group of women, under the direction of the mother who was shaking a rattle executed a dance which consisted of little jumpy steps near the place where the corpse had been placed before the burial."	No evidence	x	young adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	" Immediately after the death of a young man who had committed suicide in the village of San Patricio, his mother crouched on the earth, placed the dead boy's head on her knees and began to grieve for him, saying repeatedly the word ""yos,"" ""yos"" (my son, my son). The father beat a drum, day and night in accompaniment of a dirge in which the expression ""yos,"" ""yos,"" was much in evidence. A group of women, under the direction of the mother who was shaking a rattle executed a dance which consisted of little jumpy steps near the place where the corpse had been placed before the burial."	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		firsthand
482	syme	Case	Mataco	"Immediately after the death of a young man who had committed suicide in the village of San Patricio, his mother crouched on the earth, placed the dead boy's head on her knees and began to grieve for him, saying repeatedly the word ""yos,"" ""yos"" (my son, my son). The father beat a drum, day and night in accompaniment of a dirge in which the expression ""yos,"" ""yos,"" was much in evidence. A group of women, under the direction of the mother who was shaking a rattle executed a dance which consisted of little jumpy steps near the place where the corpse had been placed before the burial."	No evidence	x	young adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	no	x	" Immediately after the death of a young man who had committed suicide in the village of San Patricio, his mother crouched on the earth, placed the dead boy's head on her knees and began to grieve for him, saying repeatedly the word ""yos,"" ""yos"" (my son, my son). The father beat a drum, day and night in accompaniment of a dirge in which the expression ""yos,"" ""yos,"" was much in evidence. A group of women, under the direction of the mother who was shaking a rattle executed a dance which consisted of little jumpy steps near the place where the corpse had been placed before the burial."	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	firsthand
483	zgarfield	Cultural model	Mataco	in addition, there is no doubt that suicide among these people has a decidedly aggressive character. The Matako use suicide as a threat; by killing themselves, they punish the person who has offended them. It may well be, therefore, that suicide was an institutionalized form of protest under the conditions of the earlier culture undertaken for some concrete reason by one individual who could not otherwise effectively punish members of the ingroup, and followed by others whose desires were kindled by the first example.	No evidence	x	unknown	in addition, there is no doubt that suicide among these people has a decidedly aggressive character. The Matako use suicide as a threat; by killing themselves, they punish the person who has offended them. It may well be, therefore, that suicide was an institutionalized form of protest under the conditions of the earlier culture undertaken for some concrete reason by one individual who could not otherwise effectively punish members of the ingroup, and followed by others whose desires were kindled by the first example.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	in addition, there is no doubt that suicide among these people has a decidedly aggressive character. The Matako use suicide as a threat; by killing themselves, they punish the person who has offended them. It may well be, therefore, that suicide was an institutionalized form of protest under the conditions of the earlier culture undertaken for some concrete reason by one individual who could not otherwise effectively punish members of the ingroup, and followed by others whose desires were kindled by the first example.	unknown	etic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	The Matako use suicide as a threat; by killing themselves, they punish the person who has offended them.	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	It may well be, therefore, that suicide was an institutionalized form of protest under the conditions of the earlier culture undertaken for some concrete reason by one individual who could not otherwise effectively punish members of the ingroup, and followed by others whose desires were kindled by the first example	x	No evidence	public	no	No evidence		firsthand
483	syme	Cultural model	Mataco	in addition, there is no doubt that suicide among these people has a decidedly aggressive character. The Matako use suicide as a threat; by killing themselves, they punish the person who has offended them. It may well be, therefore, that suicide was an institutionalized form of protest under the conditions of the earlier culture undertaken for some concrete reason by one individual who could not otherwise effectively punish members of the ingroup, and followed by others whose desires were kindled by the first example.	No evidence	x	unknown	in addition, there is no doubt that suicide among these people has a decidedly aggressive character. The Matako use suicide as a threat; by killing themselves, they punish the person who has offended them. It may well be, therefore, that suicide was an institutionalized form of protest under the conditions of the earlier culture undertaken for some concrete reason by one individual who could not otherwise effectively punish members of the ingroup, and followed by others whose desires were kindled by the first example.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	in addition, there is no doubt that suicide among these people has a decidedly aggressive character. The Matako use suicide as a threat; by killing themselves, they punish the person who has offended them. It may well be, therefore, that suicide was an institutionalized form of protest under the conditions of the earlier culture undertaken for some concrete reason by one individual who could not otherwise effectively punish members of the ingroup, and followed by others whose desires were kindled by the first example.	unknown	etic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	in addition, there is no doubt that suicide among these people has a decidedly aggressive character. The Matako use suicide as a threat; by killing themselves, they punish the person who has offended them. It may well be, therefore, that suicide was an institutionalized form of protest under the conditions of the earlier culture undertaken for some concrete reason by one individual who could not otherwise effectively punish members of the ingroup, and followed by others whose desires were kindled by the first example.	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		no evidence	threat,attempt,completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	in addition, there is no doubt that suicide among these people has a decidedly aggressive character. The Matako use suicide as a threat; by killing themselves, they punish the person who has offended them. It may well be, therefore, that suicide was an institutionalized form of protest under the conditions of the earlier culture undertaken for some concrete reason by one individual who could not otherwise effectively punish members of the ingroup, and followed by others whose desires were kindled by the first example.	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
494	zgarfield	Cultural model	Ona	"Gallardo:133, to be sure, denies a ""suicidio consciente /conscious suicide/,"" but admits a ""quitarse la vida en un arrebato de clera /giving up of life in a fury of anger/."" But even for this completely isolated assertion he can cite neither any proof nor a definite fact."	No evidence	x	unknown	"Gallardo:133, to be sure, denies a ""suicidio consciente /conscious suicide/,"" but admits a ""quitarse la vida en un arrebato de clera /giving up of life in a fury of anger"	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	anger	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		na
494	syme	Cultural model	Ona	"Gallardo:133, to be sure, denies a ""suicidio consciente /conscious suicide/,"" but admits a ""quitarse la vida en un arrebato de clera /giving up of life in a fury of anger/."" But even for this completely isolated assertion he can cite neither any proof nor a definite fact."	No evidence	x	unknown	"Gallardo:133, to be sure, denies a ""suicidio consciente /conscious suicide/,"" but admits a ""quitarse la vida en un arrebato de clera /giving up of life in a fury of anger/."" But even for this completely isolated assertion he can cite neither any proof nor a definite fact."	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	anger	"Gallardo:133, to be sure, denies a ""suicidio consciente /conscious suicide/,"" but admits a ""quitarse la vida en un arrebato de clera /giving up of life in a fury of anger/."" But even for this completely isolated assertion he can cite neither any proof nor a definite fact."	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
495	zgarfield	Case	Ona	"The often repeated explanations of young and old, of men and women, leave no doubt but that all weeping and lamenting, the painting, the large tonsure, and the cut wounds are all expressions of sincere feelings and proof of the attachment to the deceased person.(97) The latter now remains forever removed from the realm of the survivors and hence the sorrow. 97. An isolated occurrence is related by Barclay (a):77: ""Recently an old Indian clasped the body of his son, who had died from the effects of a dog-bite, in his arms, and, refusing comfort, deliberately starved himself to death"" /quoted in English/."	Evidence for	x	elderly	"An isolated occurrence is related by Barclay (a):77: ""Recently an old Indian clasped the body of his son, who had died from the effects of a dog-bite, in his arms, and, refusing comfort, deliberately starved himself to death"""	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	starvation	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	death of a loved one	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	"An isolated occurrence is related by Barclay (a):77: ""Recently an old Indian clasped the body of his son, who had died from the effects of a dog-bite, in his arms, and, refusing comfort, deliberately starved himself to death"""		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
495	syme	Case	Ona	"The often repeated explanations of young and old, of men and women, leave no doubt but that all weeping and lamenting, the painting, the large tonsure, and the cut wounds are all expressions of sincere feelings and proof of the attachment to the deceased person.(97) The latter now remains forever removed from the realm of the survivors and hence the sorrow. 97. An isolated occurrence is related by Barclay (a):77: ""Recently an old Indian clasped the body of his son, who had died from the effects of a dog-bite, in his arms, and, refusing comfort, deliberately starved himself to death"" /quoted in English/."	Evidence for	x	elderly	"The often repeated explanations of young and old, of men and women, leave no doubt but that all weeping and lamenting, the painting, the large tonsure, and the cut wounds are all expressions of sincere feelings and proof of the attachment to the deceased person.(97) The latter now remains forever removed from the realm of the survivors and hence the sorrow. 97. An isolated occurrence is related by Barclay (a):77: ""Recently an old Indian clasped the body of his son, who had died from the effects of a dog-bite, in his arms, and, refusing comfort, deliberately starved himself to death"" /quoted in English/."	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	starvation	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for		Evidence for	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male	son	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	The often repeated explanations of young and old, of men and women, leave no doubt but that all weeping and lamenting, the painting, the large tonsure, and the cut wounds are all expressions of sincere feelings and proof of the attachment to the deceased person.(97) 	4	x	x	assoc. dsh	unknown	The often repeated explanations of young and old, of men and women, leave no doubt but that all weeping and lamenting, the painting, the large tonsure, and the cut wounds are all expressions of sincere feelings and proof of the attachment to the deceased person.(97) 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	secondhand
496	zgarfield	Case	Saramaka	"Well, sometimes people use it to commit suicide,"" one man said. ""That is bad. Sometimes a man or a woman will do it to put a kunu on another's family."" He went on to tell of a man who lately did this. He had been promised the daughter of a family in this very village when the girl was a small, small child. It happened that the girl's uncles found gold in one of the streams, for which the white man gave them much goods, and now they were big men. Since the girl's children would inherit much wealth, they wanted her to be the principal wife of a man of rank. There were messages back and forth, and council meetings, but the uncles insisted that the girl return the gifts she had received--insisted against the advice of many people. So this kio, this young lad, could get his revenge in no other way than by taking his own life, and sending a kunu to the family. ""The next time you come you will probably see the kunu at work. It is always so. Of what use is wealth when the children begin to die? One year the crops are bad, and you have to buy food. One year you go from one obia man to the next to find out why your sister cannot make children. Your money goes. Kunu is a bad thing."""	No evidence	x	adult	"Well, sometimes people use it to commit suicide,"" one man said. ""That is bad. Sometimes a man or a woman will do it to put a kunu on another's family."" He went on to tell of a man who lately did this. He had been promised the daughter of a family in this very village when the girl was a small, small child. It happened that the girl's uncles found gold in one of the streams, for which the white man gave them much goods, and now they were big men. Since the girl's children would inherit much wealth, they wanted her to be the principal wife of a man of rank. There were messages back and forth, and council meetings, but the uncles insisted that the girl return the gifts she had received--insisted against the advice of many people. So this kio, this young lad, could get his revenge in no other way than by taking his own life, and sending a kunu to the family. "	interpersonal confli,resource loss	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Well, sometimes people use it to commit suicide,"" one man said. ""That is bad. Sometimes a man or a woman will do it to put a kunu on another's family."" He went on to tell of a man who lately did this. He had been promised the daughter of a family in this very village when the girl was a small, small child. It happened that the girl's uncles found gold in one of the streams, for which the white man gave them much goods, and now they were big men. Since the girl's children would inherit much wealth, they wanted her to be the principal wife of a man of rank. There were messages back and forth, and council meetings, but the uncles insisted that the girl return the gifts she had received--insisted against the advice of many people. So this kio, this young lad, could get his revenge in no other way than by taking his own life, and sending a kunu to the family. "	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	So this kio, this young lad, could get his revenge in no other way than by taking his own life, and sending a kunu to the famil	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"The next time you come you will probably see the kunu at work. It is always so. Of what use is wealth when the children begin to die? One year the crops are bad, and you have to buy food. One year you go from one obia man to the next to find out why your sister cannot make children. Your money goes. Kunu is a bad thing.""
"	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
496	syme	Case	Saramaka	"Well, sometimes people use it to commit suicide,"" one man said. ""That is bad. Sometimes a man or a woman will do it to put a kunu on another's family."" He went on to tell of a man who lately did this. He had been promised the daughter of a family in this very village when the girl was a small, small child. It happened that the girl's uncles found gold in one of the streams, for which the white man gave them much goods, and now they were big men. Since the girl's children would inherit much wealth, they wanted her to be the principal wife of a man of rank. There were messages back and forth, and council meetings, but the uncles insisted that the girl return the gifts she had received--insisted against the advice of many people. So this kio, this young lad, could get his revenge in no other way than by taking his own life, and sending a kunu to the family. ""The next time you come you will probably see the kunu at work. It is always so. Of what use is wealth when the children begin to die? One year the crops are bad, and you have to buy food. One year you go from one obia man to the next to find out why your sister cannot make children. Your money goes. Kunu is a bad thing."""	No evidence	x	young adult	"Well, sometimes people use it to commit suicide,"" one man said. ""That is bad. Sometimes a man or a woman will do it to put a kunu on another's family."" He went on to tell of a man who lately did this. He had been promised the daughter of a family in this very village when the girl was a small, small child. It happened that the girl's uncles found gold in one of the streams, for which the white man gave them much goods, and now they were big men. Since the girl's children would inherit much wealth, they wanted her to be the principal wife of a man of rank. There were messages back and forth, and council meetings, but the uncles insisted that the girl return the gifts she had received--insisted against the advice of many people. So this kio, this young lad, could get his revenge in no other way than by taking his own life, and sending a kunu to the family. ""The next time you come you will probably see the kunu at work. It is always so. Of what use is wealth when the children begin to die? One year the crops are bad, and you have to buy food. One year you go from one obia man to the next to find out why your sister cannot make children. Your money goes. Kunu is a bad thing."""	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Well, sometimes people use it to commit suicide,"" one man said. ""That is bad. Sometimes a man or a woman will do it to put a kunu on another's family."" He went on to tell of a man who lately did this. He had been promised the daughter of a family in this very village when the girl was a small, small child. It happened that the girl's uncles found gold in one of the streams, for which the white man gave them much goods, and now they were big men. Since the girl's children would inherit much wealth, they wanted her to be the principal wife of a man of rank. There were messages back and forth, and council meetings, but the uncles insisted that the girl return the gifts she had received--insisted against the advice of many people. So this kio, this young lad, could get his revenge in no other way than by taking his own life, and sending a kunu to the family. ""The next time you come you will probably see the kunu at work. It is always so. Of what use is wealth when the children begin to die? One year the crops are bad, and you have to buy food. One year you go from one obia man to the next to find out why your sister cannot make children. Your money goes. Kunu is a bad thing."""	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	"Well, sometimes people use it to commit suicide,"" one man said. ""That is bad. Sometimes a man or a woman will do it to put a kunu on another's family."" He went on to tell of a man who lately did this. He had been promised the daughter of a family in this very village when the girl was a small, small child. It happened that the girl's uncles found gold in one of the streams, for which the white man gave them much goods, and now they were big men. Since the girl's children would inherit much wealth, they wanted her to be the principal wife of a man of rank. There were messages back and forth, and council meetings, but the uncles insisted that the girl return the gifts she had received--insisted against the advice of many people. So this kio, this young lad, could get his revenge in no other way than by taking his own life, and sending a kunu to the family. ""The next time you come you will probably see the kunu at work. It is always so. Of what use is wealth when the children begin to die? One year the crops are bad, and you have to buy food. One year you go from one obia man to the next to find out why your sister cannot make children. Your money goes. Kunu is a bad thing."""	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	adult	potential affines	male	na	Evidence for	male	potential affines	Evidence against		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	" ""The next time you come you will probably see the kunu at work. It is always so. Of what use is wealth when the children begin to die? One year the crops are bad, and you have to buy food. One year you go from one obia man to the next to find out why your sister cannot make children. Your money goes. Kunu is a bad thing."""	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	average,low,unknown	secondhand
497	zgarfield	Cultural model	Saramaka	Sometimes a man or a woman will do it [suicide] to put a kunu on another's family.	No evidence	x	adult	x	group conflict	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Sometimes a man or a woman will do it [suicide] to put a kunu on another's family.
"	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	"Sometimes a man or a woman will do it [suicide] to put a kunu on another's family.
"	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	both		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	s	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		na
497	syme	Cultural model	Saramaka	Sometimes a man or a woman will do it [suicide] to put a kunu on another's family.	No evidence	x	unknown	 Sometimes a man or a woman will do it [suicide] to put a kunu on another's family.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 Sometimes a man or a woman will do it [suicide] to put a kunu on another's family.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	 Sometimes a man or a woman will do it [suicide] to put a kunu on another's family.	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	both	unknown	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
498	zgarfield	Case	Saramaka	"At times this beating is a merry affair. This happens when the adulterer's family tries to protect him, and then the matter becomes a two-family brawl, or, if the village is a large one with more than one clan substantially represented in it, it may become a fight between two clans. Once, in a village near the railhead, a man was killed in such a fight, and then white police stepped in, and the murderer went to prison. A chief, however, can give the culprit sanctuary, and Asikanu, being a chief's brother, was protected by the chief while negotiations were being carried on in his behalf. Now he was sent away from home to be one of our paddlers so that the enraged husband might be dealt with--time helps to cool anger. This was important in Asikanu's case, since the husband of the woman who had gone to Asikanu would consent to no fine, however large, and seemed, furthermore, to have misgivings about the manner in which the ritual beating would be conducted. ""I will kill myself,"" he had been heard to declare. ""I will kill myself, and give them all kunu. My yorka--ghost--will come to [p. 75] trouble them, and I will give the family a kunu, and the clan, too, because the chief has shielded him. I am powerless against the chief. I will kill myself."""	No evidence	x	adult	" Once, in a village near the railhead, a man was killed in such a fight, and then white police stepped in, and the murderer went to prison. A chief, however, can give the culprit sanctuary, and Asikanu, being a chief's brother, was protected by the chief while negotiations were being carried on in his behalf. Now he was sent away from home to be one of our paddlers so that the enraged husband might be dealt with--time helps to cool anger. This was important in Asikanu's case, since the husband of the woman who had gone to Asikanu would consent to no fine, however large, and seemed, furthermore, to have misgivings about the manner in which the ritual beating would be conducted. ""I will kill myself,"" he had been heard to declare. ""I will kill myself, and give them all kunu. My yorka--ghost--will come to [p. 75] trouble them, and I will give the family a kunu, and the clan, too, because the chief has shielded him. I am powerless against the chief. I will kill myself."""	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	" Once, in a village near the railhead, a man was killed in such a fight, and then white police stepped in, and the murderer went to prison. A chief, however, can give the culprit sanctuary, and Asikanu, being a chief's brother, was protected by the chief while negotiations were being carried on in his behalf. Now he was sent away from home to be one of our paddlers so that the enraged husband might be dealt with--time helps to cool anger. This was important in Asikanu's case, since the husband of the woman who had gone to Asikanu would consent to no fine, however large, and seemed, furthermore, to have misgivings about the manner in which the ritual beating would be conducted. ""I will kill myself,"" he had been heard to declare. ""I will kill myself, and give them all kunu. My yorka--ghost--will come to [p. 75] trouble them, and I will give the family a kunu, and the clan, too, because the chief has shielded him. I am powerless against the chief. I will kill myself."""	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	"""I will kill myself,"" he had been heard to declare. ""I will kill myself, and give them all kunu. My yorka--ghost--will come to [p. 75] trouble them, and I will give the family a kunu, and the clan, too, because the chief has shielded him. I am powerless against the chief. I will kill myself.""
"	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	multiple social doma	male	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	threat	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		unknown	enraged	"""I will kill myself,"" he had been heard to declare. ""I will kill myself, and give them all kunu. My yorka--ghost--will come to [p. 75] trouble them, and I will give the family a kunu, and the clan, too, because the chief has shielded him. I am powerless against the chief. I will kill myself.""
"	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	public	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
498	syme	Case	Saramaka	"At times this beating is a merry affair. This happens when the adulterer's family tries to protect him, and then the matter becomes a two-family brawl, or, if the village is a large one with more than one clan substantially represented in it, it may become a fight between two clans. Once, in a village near the railhead, a man was killed in such a fight, and then white police stepped in, and the murderer went to prison. A chief, however, can give the culprit sanctuary, and Asikanu, being a chief's brother, was protected by the chief while negotiations were being carried on in his behalf. Now he was sent away from home to be one of our paddlers so that the enraged husband might be dealt with--time helps to cool anger. This was important in Asikanu's case, since the husband of the woman who had gone to Asikanu would consent to no fine, however large, and seemed, furthermore, to have misgivings about the manner in which the ritual beating would be conducted. ""I will kill myself,"" he had been heard to declare. ""I will kill myself, and give them all kunu. My yorka--ghost--will come to [p. 75] trouble them, and I will give the family a kunu, and the clan, too, because the chief has shielded him. I am powerless against the chief. I will kill myself."""	No evidence	haunt adversaries	adult,unknown	"At times this beating is a merry affair. This happens when the adulterer's family tries to protect him, and then the matter becomes a two-family brawl, or, if the village is a large one with more than one clan substantially represented in it, it may become a fight between two clans. Once, in a village near the railhead, a man was killed in such a fight, and then white police stepped in, and the murderer went to prison. A chief, however, can give the culprit sanctuary, and Asikanu, being a chief's brother, was protected by the chief while negotiations were being carried on in his behalf. Now he was sent away from home to be one of our paddlers so that the enraged husband might be dealt with--time helps to cool anger. This was important in Asikanu's case, since the husband of the woman who had gone to Asikanu would consent to no fine, however large, and seemed, furthermore, to have misgivings about the manner in which the ritual beating would be conducted. ""I will kill myself,"" he had been heard to declare. ""I will kill myself, and give them all kunu. My yorka--ghost--will come to [p. 75] trouble them, and I will give the family a kunu, and the clan, too, because the chief has shielded him. I am powerless against the chief. I will kill myself."""	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"At times this beating is a merry affair. This happens when the adulterer's family tries to protect him, and then the matter becomes a two-family brawl, or, if the village is a large one with more than one clan substantially represented in it, it may become a fight between two clans. Once, in a village near the railhead, a man was killed in such a fight, and then white police stepped in, and the murderer went to prison. A chief, however, can give the culprit sanctuary, and Asikanu, being a chief's brother, was protected by the chief while negotiations were being carried on in his behalf. Now he was sent away from home to be one of our paddlers so that the enraged husband might be dealt with--time helps to cool anger. This was important in Asikanu's case, since the husband of the woman who had gone to Asikanu would consent to no fine, however large, and seemed, furthermore, to have misgivings about the manner in which the ritual beating would be conducted. ""I will kill myself,"" he had been heard to declare. ""I will kill myself, and give them all kunu. My yorka--ghost--will come to [p. 75] trouble them, and I will give the family a kunu, and the clan, too, because the chief has shielded him. I am powerless against the chief. I will kill myself."""	fearfully	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult,unknown	paramour	male	na	Evidence for	male	paramour and paramour's kin	Evidence against		no evidence	threat	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	x	unknown	anger	x	x	x	na	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
499	zgarfield	Case	Saramaka	Daunitz is a European (?) rep of the colonial government who is trying to get the Saramakas to return some stolen (?) or runaway (?) slaves. He is an intermediary, and after a long frustrating negotiation with the Saramaka, he starts a hunger strike that apparently succeeds in getting many slaves returned.	No evidence	x	unknown	Daunitz is a European (?) rep of the colonial government who is trying to get the Saramakas to return some stolen (?) or runaway (?) slaves. He is an intermediary, and after a long frustrating negotiation with the Saramaka, he starts a hunger strike that apparently succeeds in getting many slaves returned.	group conflict	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Daunitz is a European (?) rep of the colonial government who is trying to get the Saramakas to return some stolen (?) or runaway (?) slaves. He is an intermediary, and after a long frustrating negotiation with the Saramaka, he starts a hunger strike that apparently succeeds in getting many slaves returned.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	starvation	Daunitz is a European (?) rep of the colonial government who is trying to get the Saramakas to return some stolen (?) or runaway (?) slaves. He is an intermediary, and after a long frustrating negotiation with the Saramaka, he starts a hunger strike that apparently succeeds in getting many slaves returned.	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	"He is an intermediary, and after a long frustrating negotiation with the Saramaka, he starts a hunger strike that apparently succeeds in getting many slaves returned.
"	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
499	syme	Case	Saramaka	Daunitz is a European (?) rep of the colonial government who is trying to get the Saramakas to return some stolen (?) or runaway (?) slaves. He is an intermediary, and after a long frustrating negotiation with the Saramaka, he starts a hunger strike that apparently succeeds in getting many slaves returned.	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	Daunitz is a European (?) rep of the colonial government who is trying to get the Saramakas to return some stolen (?) or runaway (?) slaves. He is an intermediary, and after a long frustrating negotiation with the Saramaka, he starts a hunger strike that apparently succeeds in getting many slaves returned.	group conflict	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Daunitz is a European (?) rep of the colonial government who is trying to get the Saramakas to return some stolen (?) or runaway (?) slaves. He is an intermediary, and after a long frustrating negotiation with the Saramaka, he starts a hunger strike that apparently succeeds in getting many slaves returned.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	starvation	Daunitz is a European (?) rep of the colonial government who is trying to get the Saramakas to return some stolen (?) or runaway (?) slaves. He is an intermediary, and after a long frustrating negotiation with the Saramaka, he starts a hunger strike that apparently succeeds in getting many slaves returned.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	outgroup	na	na	No evidence	male	outgroup	Evidence against		no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	Daunitz is a European (?) rep of the colonial government who is trying to get the Saramakas to return some stolen (?) or runaway (?) slaves. He is an intermediary, and after a long frustrating negotiation with the Saramaka, he starts a hunger strike that apparently succeeds in getting many slaves returned.	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence	high,unknown	unknown
500	zgarfield	Cultural model	Saramaka	For Saramakas, the surest means of revenge [p. 350] is to commit suicide (after first making clear the reason) and then to return as an avenging spirit to sicken and kill the matrilineage of the offender(s). The mere threat of such a suicide requires quick action by the person(s) accused of inspiring it in order to avoid these dreadful consequences.	No evidence	x	adult	For Saramakas, the surest means of revenge [p. 350] is to commit suicide (after first making clear the reason) and then to return as an avenging spirit to sicken and kill the matrilineage of the offender(s). The mere threat of such a suicide requires quick action by the person(s) accused of inspiring it in order to avoid these dreadful consequences.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	For Saramakas, the surest means of revenge [p. 350] is to commit suicide (after first making clear the reason) and then to return as an avenging spirit to sicken and kill the matrilineage of the offender(s). The mere threat of such a suicide requires quick action by the person(s) accused of inspiring it in order to avoid these dreadful consequences.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	"The mere threat of such a suicide requires quick action by the person(s) accused of inspiring it in order to avoid these dreadful consequences.
"	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"The mere threat of such a suicide requires quick action by the person(s) accused of inspiring it in order to avoid these dreadful consequences.
"	x	Evidence for	public	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
500	syme	Cultural model	Saramaka	For Saramakas, the surest means of revenge [p. 350] is to commit suicide (after first making clear the reason) and then to return as an avenging spirit to sicken and kill the matrilineage of the offender(s). The mere threat of such a suicide requires quick action by the person(s) accused of inspiring it in order to avoid these dreadful consequences.	No evidence	haunt adversaries	unknown	 For Saramakas, the surest means of revenge [p. 350] is to commit suicide (after first making clear the reason) and then to return as an avenging spirit to sicken and kill the matrilineage of the offender(s). The mere threat of such a suicide requires quick action by the person(s) accused of inspiring it in order to avoid these dreadful consequences.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 For Saramakas, the surest means of revenge [p. 350] is to commit suicide (after first making clear the reason) and then to return as an avenging spirit to sicken and kill the matrilineage of the offender(s). The mere threat of such a suicide requires quick action by the person(s) accused of inspiring it in order to avoid these dreadful consequences.	fearfully	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	 For Saramakas, the surest means of revenge [p. 350] is to commit suicide (after first making clear the reason) and then to return as an avenging spirit to sicken and kill the matrilineage of the offender(s). The mere threat of such a suicide requires quick action by the person(s) accused of inspiring it in order to avoid these dreadful consequences.	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		no evidence	threat,attempt,completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	 For Saramakas, the surest means of revenge [p. 350] is to commit suicide (after first making clear the reason) and then to return as an avenging spirit to sicken and kill the matrilineage of the offender(s). The mere threat of such a suicide requires quick action by the person(s) accused of inspiring it in order to avoid these dreadful consequences.	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
501	zgarfield	Cultural model	Saramaka	In extreme cases, people make use of the knu belief to assure themselves eternal revenge against a personal enemy, by publicizing the injustice and drinking a vegetable poison before there is time for the two groups to arrange for compensation. As far as I know, there is no other motive recognized by Saramakas for suicide, which, incidentally, seems to occur fairly frequently. Moreover, the public threat of suicide is almost the standard reaction to any strongly felt injustice since death brings the only guarantee that justice will be done.	No evidence	x	unknown	In extreme cases, people make use of the knu belief to assure themselves eternal revenge against a personal enemy, by publicizing the injustice and drinking a vegetable poison before there is time for the two groups to arrange for compensation. 	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	"In extreme cases, people make use of the knu belief to assure themselves eternal revenge against a personal enemy, by publicizing the injustice and drinking a vegetable poison before there is time for the two groups to arrange for compensation. As far as I know, there is no other motive recognized by Saramakas for suicide, which, incidentally, seems to occur fairly frequently. Moreover, the public threat of suicide is almost the standard reaction to any strongly felt injustice since death brings the only guarantee that justice will be done.
"	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	poisoning	In extreme cases, people make use of the knu belief to assure themselves eternal revenge against a personal enemy, by publicizing the injustice and drinking a vegetable poison before there is time for the two groups to arrange for compensation. 	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	threat,completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"Moreover, the public threat of suicide is almost the standard reaction to any strongly felt injustice since death brings the only guarantee that justice will be done.
"	x	No evidence	public	yes	No evidence		firsthand
501	syme	Cultural model	Saramaka	In extreme cases, people make use of the knu belief to assure themselves eternal revenge against a personal enemy, by publicizing the injustice and drinking a vegetable poison before there is time for the two groups to arrange for compensation. As far as I know, there is no other motive recognized by Saramakas for suicide, which, incidentally, seems to occur fairly frequently. Moreover, the public threat of suicide is almost the standard reaction to any strongly felt injustice since death brings the only guarantee that justice will be done.	No evidence	haunt adversaries	unknown	In extreme cases, people make use of the knu belief to assure themselves eternal revenge against a personal enemy, by publicizing the injustice and drinking a vegetable poison before there is time for the two groups to arrange for compensation. As far as I know, there is no other motive recognized by Saramakas for suicide, which, incidentally, seems to occur fairly frequently. Moreover, the public threat of suicide is almost the standard reaction to any strongly felt injustice since death brings the only guarantee that justice will be done.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	In extreme cases, people make use of the knu belief to assure themselves eternal revenge against a personal enemy, by publicizing the injustice and drinking a vegetable poison before there is time for the two groups to arrange for compensation. As far as I know, there is no other motive recognized by Saramakas for suicide, which, incidentally, seems to occur fairly frequently. Moreover, the public threat of suicide is almost the standard reaction to any strongly felt injustice since death brings the only guarantee that justice will be done.	fearfully	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	poisoning	In extreme cases, people make use of the knu belief to assure themselves eternal revenge against a personal enemy, by publicizing the injustice and drinking a vegetable poison before there is time for the two groups to arrange for compensation. As far as I know, there is no other motive recognized by Saramakas for suicide, which, incidentally, seems to occur fairly frequently. Moreover, the public threat of suicide is almost the standard reaction to any strongly felt injustice since death brings the only guarantee that justice will be done.	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	unknown	na	na	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		no evidence	threat,attempt,completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	high suicide rate	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
503	zgarfield	Case	Tukano/Ticuna	"Should a man kill his wife only her kin will avenge her. There is no one to avenge or punish a father who kills his children. The only example of such crimes that I have is of a madman, but it does illustrate the point. According to the account given me, this man, crazed by hunger, killed and ate his children. He then attacked his wife, cut off one of her breasts, roasted it in the fire, and ate it. No one interfered ""because it was his own wife and children."" The man then cut a piece from his own thigh. The people watching said, ""Let him do this. It is a good thing that he should die."" They watched as he then cut his throat and died."	No evidence	x	adult	"According to the account given me, this man, crazed by hunger, killed and ate his children. He then attacked his wife, cut off one of her breasts, roasted it in the fire, and ate it. No one interfered ""because it was his own wife and children."" The man then cut a piece from his own thigh. The people watching said, ""Let him do this. It is a good thing that he should die."" They watched as he then cut his throat and died."	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	"According to the account given me, this man, crazed by hunger, killed and ate his children. He then attacked his wife, cut off one of her breasts, roasted it in the fire, and ate it. No one interfered ""because it was his own wife and children."" The man then cut a piece from his own thigh. The people watching said, ""Let him do this. It is a good thing that he should die."" They watched as he then cut his throat and died."	approvingly	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	unknown	Evidence against	bleed_to_death	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	severe	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		no	crazed by hunger	x	x	x	not stated	1	crazed by hunger, killed and ate his children. He then attacked his wife, cut off one of her breasts, roasted it in the fire, and ate it. 	"The people watching said, ""Let him do this. It is a good thing that he should die."" They watched as he then cut his throat and died.
"	crazed by hunger, 	No evidence	public	no	No evidence		secondhand
503	syme	Case	Tukano/Ticuna	"Should a man kill his wife only her kin will avenge her. There is no one to avenge or punish a father who kills his children. The only example of such crimes that I have is of a madman, but it does illustrate the point. According to the account given me, this man, crazed by hunger, killed and ate his children. He then attacked his wife, cut off one of her breasts, roasted it in the fire, and ate it. No one interfered ""because it was his own wife and children."" The man then cut a piece from his own thigh. The people watching said, ""Let him do this. It is a good thing that he should die."" They watched as he then cut his throat and died."	Evidence for	x	adult	"Should a man kill his wife only her kin will avenge her. There is no one to avenge or punish a father who kills his children. The only example of such crimes that I have is of a madman, but it does illustrate the point. According to the account given me, this man, crazed by hunger, killed and ate his children. He then attacked his wife, cut off one of her breasts, roasted it in the fire, and ate it. No one interfered ""because it was his own wife and children."" The man then cut a piece from his own thigh. The people watching said, ""Let him do this. It is a good thing that he should die."" They watched as he then cut his throat and died."	accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly	na	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	unknown	Evidence against	bleed_to_death	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	social group	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	commit homicide: wife and children	5	x	x	commit homicide	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	"Should a man kill his wife only her kin will avenge her. There is no one to avenge or punish a father who kills his children. The only example of such crimes that I have is of a madman, but it does illustrate the point. According to the account given me, this man, crazed by hunger, killed and ate his children. He then attacked his wife, cut off one of her breasts, roasted it in the fire, and ate it. No one interfered ""because it was his own wife and children."" The man then cut a piece from his own thigh. The people watching said, ""Let him do this. It is a good thing that he should die."" They watched as he then cut his throat and died."	"It is a good thing that he should die."" They watched as he then cut his throat and died."	x	Evidence for	public	no	Evidence for	low	unknown
504	zgarfield	Case	Tukano/Ticuna	Pe. Joao Marchesi related to us the details of the only case of suicide that he had heard of. A Taryana Indian from the povoado called Cigarro, river Uaups, violently inebriated by the caxir, threw his own wife down on the ground and ill-treated her until he killed her. Afterwards he lay in the hammock and fell asleep. While he slept, the relatives and other persons buried the body. The murderer, upon awakening in the morning, called for his wife to prepare the mingau for him. They then told him how he himself had killed her the night before. The murderer, without saying anything to anyone, took his canoe and went to a nearby igarap. Some hours later the canoe was found bubuiando (floating at the mercy of the stream) and, inside, some pieces of timbo and a cuia still dirty with timbo juice. The poor man squeezed and drank the poisonous juice of that plant and, perhaps in the convulsions of the agony, fell in the water and drowned.	No evidence	x	adult	A Taryana Indian from the povoado called Cigarro, river Uaups, violently inebriated by the caxir, threw his own wife down on the ground and ill-treated her until he killed her. Afterwards he lay in the hammock and fell asleep. While he slept, the relatives and other persons buried the body. The murderer, upon awakening in the morning, called for his wife to prepare the mingau for him. They then told him how he himself had killed her the night before. The murderer, without saying anything to anyone, took his canoe and went to a nearby igarap. Some hours later the canoe was found bubuiando (floating at the mercy of the stream) and, inside, some pieces of timbo and a cuia still dirty with timbo juice. The poor man squeezed and drank the poisonous juice of that plant and, perhaps in the convulsions of the agony, fell in the water and drowned.	interpersonal confli,death loved one,accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	A Taryana Indian from the povoado called Cigarro, river Uaups, violently inebriated by the caxir, threw his own wife down on the ground and ill-treated her until he killed her. Afterwards he lay in the hammock and fell asleep. While he slept, the relatives and other persons buried the body. The murderer, upon awakening in the morning, called for his wife to prepare the mingau for him. They then told him how he himself had killed her the night before. The murderer, without saying anything to anyone, took his canoe and went to a nearby igarap. Some hours later the canoe was found bubuiando (floating at the mercy of the stream) and, inside, some pieces of timbo and a cuia still dirty with timbo juice. The poor man squeezed and drank the poisonous juice of that plant and, perhaps in the convulsions of the agony, fell in the water and drowned.	unknown	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	unknown	Evidence against	poisoning,drowning	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	private	unknown	No evidence		secondhand
504	syme	Case	Tukano/Ticuna	Pe. Joao Marchesi related to us the details of the only case of suicide that he had heard of. A Taryana Indian from the povoado called Cigarro, river Uaups, violently inebriated by the caxir, threw his own wife down on the ground and ill-treated her until he killed her. Afterwards he lay in the hammock and fell asleep. While he slept, the relatives and other persons buried the body. The murderer, upon awakening in the morning, called for his wife to prepare the mingau for him. They then told him how he himself had killed her the night before. The murderer, without saying anything to anyone, took his canoe and went to a nearby igarap. Some hours later the canoe was found bubuiando (floating at the mercy of the stream) and, inside, some pieces of timbo and a cuia still dirty with timbo juice. The poor man squeezed and drank the poisonous juice of that plant and, perhaps in the convulsions of the agony, fell in the water and drowned.	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	A Taryana Indian from the povoado called Cigarro, river Uaups, violently inebriated by the caxir, threw his own wife down on the ground and ill-treated her until he killed her. Afterwards he lay in the hammock and fell asleep. While he slept, the relatives and other persons buried the body. The murderer, upon awakening in the morning, called for his wife to prepare the mingau for him. They then told him how he himself had killed her the night before. The murderer, without saying anything to anyone, took his canoe and went to a nearby igarap. Some hours later the canoe was found bubuiando (floating at the mercy of the stream) and, inside, some pieces of timbo and a cuia still dirty with timbo juice. The poor man squeezed and drank the poisonous juice of that plant and, perhaps in the convulsions of the agony, fell in the water and drowned.	accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	poisoning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	social group	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	commit homicide: wife	4	x	x	commit homicide	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	private	unknown	Evidence for	low,unknown	unknown
515	zgarfield	Cultural model	Lau Fijans	The cure of a case of spirit possession is accomplished by a method curiously similar to that used in psychoanalysis. The Lauan theory is that the doctor must draw a confession of the name of the spirit from the patient in order to release the spirit from his body. The doctor sees the patient every day, tries to allay his fears, encourages him, talks to him Page: 126 about the spirit, gives him potions of herbs to drink, and rubs his body with medicines. Finally in the course of the treatment, when the doctor touches the part of the body in which the spirit dwells, the patient will cry out. The doctor presses the affected part until it hurts and asks Who is it? and in great distress the patient calls the name of the spirit. Immediately the spirit leaves him and he begins to recover. The cure, however, is not always permanent. While we were on Kambara, Suma of Undu became ill. He lost his memory and his power of thought. He wandered about the village staring into space. He could not eat, sleep or work, and he had to be watched lest he cut or burn himself. People were afraid that he might set fire to a house or commit suicide. He was tortured by dreams of evil spirits who took him fishing or into the bush. Finally he went for treatment to Kama, the best witch doctor on Kambara, and lived in Kama's house for about two months.	Evidence for	x	adult	While we were on Kambara, Suma of Undu became ill. He lost his memory and his power of thought. He wandered about the village staring into space. He could not eat, sleep or work, and he had to be watched lest he cut or burn himself. People were afraid that he might set fire to a house or commit suicide. 	spirit attack	No evidence	na	Evidence for	While we were on Kambara, Suma of Undu became ill. He lost his memory and his power of thought. He wandered about the village staring into space. He could not eat, sleep or work, and he had to be watched lest he cut or burn himself. People were afraid that he might set fire to a house or commit suicide. He was tortured by dreams of evil spirits who took him fishing or into the bush.	na	emic	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	unknown	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		unknown	He was tortured by dreams of evil spirits 	x	x	x	not stated	1	He could not eat, sleep or work, and he had to be watched lest he cut or burn himself. People were afraid that he might set fire to a house or commit suicide.	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		unknown
515	syme	Cultural model	Lau Fijans	The cure of a case of spirit possession is accomplished by a method curiously similar to that used in psychoanalysis. The Lauan theory is that the doctor must draw a confession of the name of the spirit from the patient in order to release the spirit from his body. The doctor sees the patient every day, tries to allay his fears, encourages him, talks to him Page: 126 about the spirit, gives him potions of herbs to drink, and rubs his body with medicines. Finally in the course of the treatment, when the doctor touches the part of the body in which the spirit dwells, the patient will cry out. The doctor presses the affected part until it hurts and asks Who is it? and in great distress the patient calls the name of the spirit. Immediately the spirit leaves him and he begins to recover. The cure, however, is not always permanent. While we were on Kambara, Suma of Undu became ill. He lost his memory and his power of thought. He wandered about the village staring into space. He could not eat, sleep or work, and he had to be watched lest he cut or burn himself. People were afraid that he might set fire to a house or commit suicide. He was tortured by dreams of evil spirits who took him fishing or into the bush. Finally he went for treatment to Kama, the best witch doctor on Kambara, and lived in Kama's house for about two months.	Evidence for	x	adult,unknown	Immediately the spirit leaves him and he begins to recover. The cure, however, is not always permanent. While we were on Kambara, Suma of Undu became ill. He lost his memory and his power of thought. He wandered about the village staring into space. He could not eat, sleep or work, and he had to be watched lest he cut or burn himself. People were afraid that he might set fire to a house or commit suicide. He was tortured by dreams of evil spirits who took him fishing or into the bush. Finally he went for treatment to Kama, the best witch doctor on Kambara, and lived in Kama's house for about two months.	spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	depression,DSH	No evidence	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	 He wandered about the village staring into space. He could not eat, sleep or work, and he had to be watched lest he cut or burn himself. People were afraid that he might set fire to a house or commit suicide. He was tortured by dreams of evil spirits who took him fishing or into the bush. Finally he went for treatment to Kama, the best witch doctor on Kambara, and lived in Kama's house for about two months.	x	x	x	nightmares	na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	He wandered about the village staring into space. He could not eat, sleep or work, and he had to be watched lest he cut or burn himself. People were afraid that he might set fire to a house or commit suicide. He was tortured by dreams of evil spirits who took him fishing or into the bush. Finally he went for treatment to Kama, the best witch doctor on Kambara, and lived in Kama's house for about two months.	x	x	No evidence	na	no	No evidence	unknown	firsthand
516	zgarfield	Case	Ganda	Amongst the Basoga there were 10% who committed suicide after killing a spouse and another 3% had attacked a spouse without killing. Amongst the Banyoro 3 out of 36 men who committed suicide had first killed their wife.	No evidence	x	adult	Amongst the Basoga there were 10% who committed suicide after killing a spouse and another 3% had attacked a spouse without killing. Amongst the Banyoro 3 out of 36 men who committed suicide had first killed their wife.	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	Amongst the Basoga there were 10% who committed suicide after killing a spouse and another 3% had attacked a spouse without killing. Amongst the Banyoro 3 out of 36 men who committed suicide had first killed their wife.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	female	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x 	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
516	syme	Case	Ganda	Amongst the Basoga there were 10% who committed suicide after killing a spouse and another 3% had attacked a spouse without killing. Amongst the Banyoro 3 out of 36 men who committed suicide had first killed their wife.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,unknown	Amongst the Basoga there were 10% who committed suicide after killing a spouse and another 3% had attacked a spouse without killing. Amongst the Banyoro 3 out of 36 men who committed suicide had first killed their wife.	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	commit homicide	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	3,rate	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	documented_account
518	zgarfield	Cultural model	Akan	the action of taking one's own life was considered as honourable and acclaimed as praiseworthy... to take one's own life in order to accompany a beloved master or mistress to the land of the spirits	Evidence for	x	adult	the action of taking one's own life was considered as honourable and acclaimed as praiseworthy... to take one's own life in order to accompany a beloved master or mistress to the land of the spirits	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	"to take one's own life in order to accompany a beloved master or mistress to the land of the spirits
"	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	both		No evidence	Evidence for	death of a loved one	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	yes	No evidence		firsthand
518	syme	Cultural model	Akan	the action of taking one's own life was considered as honourable and acclaimed as praiseworthy... to take one's own life in order to accompany a beloved master or mistress to the land of the spirits	No evidence	positive,neutral	young adult,adult,elderly	in order to accompany a beloved master or mistress to the land of the spirits	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence		x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence		x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	servant followed	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	low,unknown	na
540	zgarfield	Cultural model	Dogon	"The souls of certain adults, who die in unusual circumstances, are condemned to wander eternally in the bush where they become a dangerous power, or dyabu. This involves, among others, those whom the society intends to keep out by preventing the reincarnation of their nyama in one or more of its members; consequently, none of the customary rites which follow the funerals are executed, and the soul -- which is not called to consume from the family altar -- is thus excluded from the community. The same custom was once observed for a suicide. The dyabus [p. 221] are compared to the ""bad wind"" (wewe mou) or to the ""whirling wind"""	No evidence	The souls of certain adults, who die in unusual circumstances, are condemned to wander eternally in the bush where they become a dangerous power, or dyabu. This involves, among others, those whom the society intends to keep out by preventing the reincarnation of their nyama in one or more of its members; consequently, none of the customary rites which follow the funerals are executed, and the soul -- which is not called to consume from the family altar -- is thus excluded from the community. The same custom was once observed for a suicide. 	na	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	na		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	na	x	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		unknown
540	syme	Cultural model	Dogon	"The souls of certain adults, who die in unusual circumstances, are condemned to wander eternally in the bush where they become a dangerous power, or dyabu. This involves, among others, those whom the society intends to keep out by preventing the reincarnation of their nyama in one or more of its members; consequently, none of the customary rites which follow the funerals are executed, and the soul -- which is not called to consume from the family altar -- is thus excluded from the community. The same custom was once observed for a suicide. The dyabus [p. 221] are compared to the ""bad wind"" (wewe mou) or to the ""whirling wind"""	No evidence	wander eternally	unknown	x	na	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	fearfully	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	yes	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
541	zgarfield	Cultural model	Dogon	With men, this force depends on the kikinu sae, or the soul. Whereas the soul is individual and pursues its extra-human destiny after death, the nyama is the impersonal element, which, after separating itself from the body upon death, goes to another being (ordinarily a newborn) which it normally imbues (1) However, if it is a matter of a violent death, this migration provokes disorders which the living combat with the appropriate rites. (1). However, this rule does present some exceptions.The souls of certain deceased are essentially condemned to wander in the bush; they become evil beings, or dyabu, whose vital force cannot be perpetuated in a nani respondent. This involves either young people who have died as virgins or adults who have died in such a way that the relatives decide that the funeral rites, which would permit the soul of the deceased to consume the libations offered on the ancestral altars, should not be carried out. The soul is thus left to wander and cannot impart its dangerous nyama to a newborn. A dwarf, a suicide, or an epileptic, whose maladies are feared for being passed on to a nani respondent or even a family member, are part of this category of the excluded.	No evidence	"Whereas the soul is individual and pursues its extra-human destiny after death, the nyama is the impersonal element, which, after separating itself from the body upon death, goes to another being (ordinarily a newborn) which it normally imbues (1) However, if it is a matter of a violent death, this migration provokes disorders which the living combat with the appropriate rites. .The soul is thus left to wander and cannot impart its dangerous nyama to a newborn. A dwarf, a suicide, or an epileptic, whose maladies are feared for being passed on to a nani respondent or even a family member, are part of this category of the excluded.
"	adult	x	na	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na		na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
541	syme	Cultural model	Dogon	With men, this force depends on the kikinu sae, or the soul. Whereas the soul is individual and pursues its extra-human destiny after death, the nyama is the impersonal element, which, after separating itself from the body upon death, goes to another being (ordinarily a newborn) which it normally imbues (1) However, if it is a matter of a violent death, this migration provokes disorders which the living combat with the appropriate rites. (1). However, this rule does present some exceptions.The souls of certain deceased are essentially condemned to wander in the bush; they become evil beings, or dyabu, whose vital force cannot be perpetuated in a nani respondent. This involves either young people who have died as virgins or adults who have died in such a way that the relatives decide that the funeral rites, which would permit the soul of the deceased to consume the libations offered on the ancestral altars, should not be carried out. The soul is thus left to wander and cannot impart its dangerous nyama to a newborn. A dwarf, a suicide, or an epileptic, whose maladies are feared for being passed on to a nani respondent or even a family member, are part of this category of the excluded.	No evidence	wander	na	x	spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly,fearfully	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	yes	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
542	zgarfield	Cultural model	Ganda	Beside those suffering from one of the terrible triad of illnesses, other people buried in the bush are those who have killed themselves, and those with entumbi (translated as dropsy), which causes a swollen stomach.	No evidence	x	na	x	na	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	na		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	Beside those suffering from one of the terrible triad of illnesses, other people buried in the bush are those who have killed themselves,	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
542	syme	Cultural model	Ganda	Beside those suffering from one of the terrible triad of illnesses, other people buried in the bush are those who have killed themselves, and those with entumbi (translated as dropsy), which causes a swollen stomach.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly,unknown,fearfully	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	Beside those suffering from one of the terrible triad of illnesses, other people buried in the bush are those who have killed themselves, and those with entumbi (translated as dropsy), which causes a swollen stomach.	yes	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
571	zgarfield	Cultural model	Santal	As regards the repercussions on the emotions of the Santals should they be refused by girls when sexually approached, we gathered that normally the [p. 422] youth who proposes a mating and is refused does not mind it seriously. It seems that another successful intrigue would cure the temporary disappointment. But should the boy who proposes, be in real love with the girl, he feels shocked and many such cases end in tragedies.	No evidence	x	young adult	But should the boy who proposes, be in real love with the girl, he feels shocked and many such cases end in tragedies.	rejection	No evidence	na	Evidence for	But should the boy who proposes, be in real love with the girl, he feels shocked and many such cases end in tragedies.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	ado_young_adult	social partners	female	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	be in real love 	"As regards the repercussions on the emotions of the Santals should they be refused by girls when sexually approached, we gathered that normally the [p. 422] youth who proposes a mating and is refused does not mind it seriously. It seems that another successful intrigue would cure the temporary disappointment. But should the boy who proposes, be in real love with the girl, he feels shocked and many such cases end in tragedies.
"	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
571	syme	Cultural model	Santal	As regards the repercussions on the emotions of the Santals should they be refused by girls when sexually approached, we gathered that normally the [p. 422] youth who proposes a mating and is refused does not mind it seriously. It seems that another successful intrigue would cure the temporary disappointment. But should the boy who proposes, be in real love with the girl, he feels shocked and many such cases end in tragedies.	No evidence	x	young adult	As regards the repercussions on the emotions of the Santals should they be refused by girls when sexually approached, we gathered that normally the [p. 422] youth who proposes a mating and is refused does not mind it seriously. It seems that another successful intrigue would cure the temporary disappointment. But should the boy who proposes, be in real love with the girl, he feels shocked and many such cases end in tragedies.	rejection,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion,unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	no	disappointment, shock	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	na	na
579	zgarfield	Cultural model	Kurds	In contrast, in the families of the government elite, not those of the town, but others encountered in different areas of Iraq, the larger family can break down, sons rebelling against their fathers and disassociating themselves from their relatives. It is in the official class, rather than among groups such as the commoners or aristocrats of Rowanduz, that alcoholism and suicide is found.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
579	syme	Cultural model	Kurds	In contrast, in the families of the government elite, not those of the town, but others encountered in different areas of Iraq, the larger family can break down, sons rebelling against their fathers and disassociating themselves from their relatives. It is in the official class, rather than among groups such as the commoners or aristocrats of Rowanduz, that alcoholism and suicide is found.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,unknown	 the larger family can break down, sons rebelling against their fathers and disassociating themselves from their relatives.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 the larger family can break down, sons rebelling against their fathers and disassociating themselves from their relatives.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	father	male	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	assoc. alcoholism	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence for	high	na
581	zgarfield	Case	Blackfoot	Disease swept the fort, killing twenty-six Indian women and a white man. Ten days after they left the fort, smallpox began to break out among the Piegans and Blood Indians. Terrified at the sight of their healthy kinsmen wasting away with corruption, some of them committed suicide at the first symptoms of the disease by stabbing themselves or throwing themselves into streams.	Evidence for	x	adult	Terrified at the sight of their healthy kinsmen wasting away with corruption, some of them committed suicide at the first symptoms of the disease by stabbing themselves or throwing themselves into streams.	disease outbreak	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	drowning,stabbing	"Terrified at the sight of their healthy kinsmen wasting away with corruption, some of them committed suicide at the first symptoms of the disease by stabbing themselves or throwing themselves into streams.
"	No evidence	Evidence for		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	Terrified	"Terrified at the sight of their healthy kinsmen wasting away with corruption, some of them committed suicide at the first symptoms of the disease by stabbing themselves or throwing themselves into streams.
"	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
581	syme	Case	Blackfoot	Disease swept the fort, killing twenty-six Indian women and a white man. Ten days after they left the fort, smallpox began to break out among the Piegans and Blood Indians. Terrified at the sight of their healthy kinsmen wasting away with corruption, some of them committed suicide at the first symptoms of the disease by stabbing themselves or throwing themselves into streams.	Evidence for	x	unknown	Disease swept the fort, killing twenty-six Indian women and a white man. Ten days after they left the fort, smallpox began to break out among the Piegans and Blood Indians. Terrified at the sight of their healthy kinsmen wasting away with corruption, some of them committed suicide at the first symptoms of the disease by stabbing themselves or throwing themselves into streams.	disease outbreak,na	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	drowning,stabbing	Terrified at the sight of their healthy kinsmen wasting away with corruption, some of them committed suicide at the first symptoms of the disease by stabbing themselves or throwing themselves into streams.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	severe,acute	other	x	3	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	unknown,rate	x	x	smallpox	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
582	zgarfield	Case	Blackfoot	"When this pressure was unavailing, the two were shunned by all. After several months together, the two quarrelled among themselves over suspected unfaithfulness. They separated, and the man committed suicide after leaving behind notes addressed to his first wife. The woman later remarried, though to a man of lower status than herself, and by exemplary behavior and even some show of submissiveness has lived down much of the scandal. Here all pressure failed to dissolve the match, even ostracism. When the microcosm itself collapsed, there were no other face-saving alternatives for the man than suicide, and suicide under any circumstances is very rare. Usually the agency policy is laissez-faire with respect to marital affairs, and the foregoing case shows that the maximum persuasion came from relatives and other Indians who ""cut"" them socially. The agency is more often invoked to untangle the conflicting claims on property between the offended and the offending parties after separation. Here the council of chiefs is particularly useful in advising the agent as to Blackfoot practice and sentiment."	No evidence	x	adult	After several months together, the two quarrelled among themselves over suspected unfaithfulness. They separated, and the man committed suicide after leaving behind notes addressed to his first wife. T	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	When this pressure was unavailing, the two were shunned by all. After several months together, the two quarrelled among themselves over suspected unfaithfulness. They separated, and the man committed suicide after leaving behind notes addressed to his first wife. T	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	female	na	No evidence	male		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	The woman later remarried, though to a man of lower status than herself, and by exemplary behavior and even some show of submissiveness has lived down much of the scandal. 	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence for		firsthand
582	syme	Case	Blackfoot	"When this pressure was unavailing, the two were shunned by all. After several months together, the two quarrelled among themselves over suspected unfaithfulness. They separated, and the man committed suicide after leaving behind notes addressed to his first wife. The woman later remarried, though to a man of lower status than herself, and by exemplary behavior and even some show of submissiveness has lived down much of the scandal. Here all pressure failed to dissolve the match, even ostracism. When the microcosm itself collapsed, there were no other face-saving alternatives for the man than suicide, and suicide under any circumstances is very rare. Usually the agency policy is laissez-faire with respect to marital affairs, and the foregoing case shows that the maximum persuasion came from relatives and other Indians who ""cut"" them socially. The agency is more often invoked to untangle the conflicting claims on property between the offended and the offending parties after separation. Here the council of chiefs is particularly useful in advising the agent as to Blackfoot practice and sentiment."	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,unknown	"When this pressure was unavailing, the two were shunned by all. After several months together, the two quarrelled among themselves over suspected unfaithfulness. They separated, and the man committed suicide after leaving behind notes addressed to his first wife. The woman later remarried, though to a man of lower status than herself, and by exemplary behavior and even some show of submissiveness has lived down much of the scandal. Here all pressure failed to dissolve the match, even ostracism. When the microcosm itself collapsed, there were no other face-saving alternatives for the man than suicide, and suicide under any circumstances is very rare. Usually the agency policy is laissez-faire with respect to marital affairs, and the foregoing case shows that the maximum persuasion came from relatives and other Indians who ""cut"" them socially. The agency is more often invoked to untangle the conflicting claims on property between the offended and the offending parties after separation. Here the council of chiefs is particularly useful in advising the agent as to Blackfoot practice and sentiment."	accus_commit wrongdo,rejection,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	social group	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	low	unknown
594	zgarfield	Case	Iroquois	Lafitau (1724, 1:404) reported that one young Mohawk girl was uncontrollable because of her grief for her sister who committed suicide. The reason for her despair was that by committing suicide her elder sister would not be able to meet the younger in the land of their ancesters.	No evidence	"The reason for her despair was that by committing suicide her elder sister would not be able to meet the younger in the land of their ancesters.
"	young adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	1	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
594	syme	Case	Iroquois	Lafitau (1724, 1:404) reported that one young Mohawk girl was uncontrollable because of her grief for her sister who committed suicide. The reason for her despair was that by committing suicide her elder sister would not be able to meet the younger in the land of their ancesters.	No evidence	negative	young adult,adult,unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly,unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	 Lafitau (1724, 1:404) reported that one young Mohawk girl was uncontrollable because of her grief for her sister who committed suicide. The reason for her despair was that by committing suicide her elder sister would not be able to meet the younger in the land of their ancesters.	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	documented_account
627	zgarfield	Cultural model	Ojibwa	It is a topic which is not frequently mentioned, but when it is, great emotion is shown. Suicide is thought to be the most upsetting type of death for the survivors to bear.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
627	syme	Cultural model	Ojibwa	It is a topic which is not frequently mentioned, but when it is, great emotion is shown. Suicide is thought to be the most upsetting type of death for the survivors to bear.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	na	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	 It is a topic which is not frequently mentioned, but when it is, great emotion is shown. Suicide is thought to be the most upsetting type of death for the survivors to bear	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence	unknown	na
630	zgarfield	Cultural model	Ojibwa	"But one has to wonder why young females predominate in the statistics on attempted suicide. The chief explains: ""Girls blame themselves when they find out they've been raped while they were drunk, especially when raped by members of their own family. It's a great shame to them."""	Evidence for	x	young adult	"But one has to wonder why young females predominate in the statistics on attempted suicide. The chief explains: ""Girls blame themselves when they find out they've been raped while they were drunk, especially when raped by members of their own family. It's a great shame to them."""	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"But one has to wonder why young females predominate in the statistics on attempted suicide. The chief explains: ""Girls blame themselves when they find out they've been raped while they were drunk, especially when raped by members of their own family. It's a great shame to them."""	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	sexual abuse	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	shame	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
630	syme	Cultural model	Ojibwa	"But one has to wonder why young females predominate in the statistics on attempted suicide. The chief explains: ""Girls blame themselves when they find out they've been raped while they were drunk, especially when raped by members of their own family. It's a great shame to them."""	Evidence for	x	young adult,unknown	" But one has to wonder why young females predominate in the statistics on attempted suicide. The chief explains: ""Girls blame themselves when they find out they've been raped while they were drunk, especially when raped by members of their own family. It's a great shame to them."""	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence		x	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		sexual abuse	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	shame	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
631	zgarfield	Cultural model	Pawnee	27. A murder or suicide was considered highly displeasing to the gods, and that in consequence a ceremony must be performed. This does not materially differ from that performed at every death, except that neglect to do it is regarded as certain to bring calamities.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	A murder or suicide was considered highly displeasing to the gods, and that in consequence a ceremony must be performed. This does not materially differ from that performed at every death, except that neglect to do it is regarded as certain to bring calamities.	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
631	syme	Cultural model	Pawnee	27. A murder or suicide was considered highly displeasing to the gods, and that in consequence a ceremony must be performed. This does not materially differ from that performed at every death, except that neglect to do it is regarded as certain to bring calamities.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	na	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly,fearfully	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	A murder or suicide was considered highly displeasing to the gods, and that in consequence a ceremony must be performed. This does not materially differ from that performed at every death, except that neglect to do it is regarded as certain to bring calamities.	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
634	zgarfield	Case	Tlingit	"For example, in 1881, a Chilkoot Indian who had been confined on the charge of trying to murder his wife committed suicide. According to native rules of justice, the ""other man,"" a Sitka Indian, was responsible for the suicide, and the Chilkoot demanded compensation in blankets. Commander Lull was inclined to forbid such payment, but did permit it, because the Indians of both the clans involved felt it to be just (Glass 1882:29-30; Lull 1882:47)."	No evidence	x	adult	a Chilkoot Indian who had been confined on the charge of trying to murder his wife committed suicide. 	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	a Chilkoot Indian who had been confined on the charge of trying to murder his wife committed suicide. 	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	perpetrate violence,death of a loved one	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		documented_account
634	syme	Case	Tlingit	"For example, in 1881, a Chilkoot Indian who had been confined on the charge of trying to murder his wife committed suicide. According to native rules of justice, the ""other man,"" a Sitka Indian, was responsible for the suicide, and the Chilkoot demanded compensation in blankets. Commander Lull was inclined to forbid such payment, but did permit it, because the Indians of both the clans involved felt it to be just (Glass 1882:29-30; Lull 1882:47)."	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	"For example, in 1881, a Chilkoot Indian who had been confined on the charge of trying to murder his wife committed suicide. According to native rules of justice, the ""other man,"" a Sitka Indian, was responsible for the suicide, and the Chilkoot demanded compensation in blankets. "	accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"For example, in 1881, a Chilkoot Indian who had been confined on the charge of trying to murder his wife committed suicide. According to native rules of justice, the ""other man,"" a Sitka Indian, was responsible for the suicide, and the Chilkoot demanded compensation in blankets. Commander Lull was inclined to forbid such payment, but did permit it, because the Indians of both the clans involved felt it to be just "	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	paramour	na	na	Evidence for	male	paramour	Evidence against		perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	commit homicide	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"For example, in 1881, a Chilkoot Indian who had been confined on the charge of trying to murder his wife committed suicide. According to native rules of justice, the ""other man,"" a Sitka Indian, was responsible for the suicide, and the Chilkoot demanded compensation in blankets. Commander Lull was inclined to forbid such payment, but did permit it, because the Indians of both the clans involved felt it to be just ("	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	low	unknown
635	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tlingit	According to native custom, if a person commits suicide because some one has offended him, or opposed a wish of his, heavy damages or a life must be given to the tribe of the suicide by the tribe of the one giving the offence. So suicide is sometimes resorted to in order to harass and burden others. The threat of suicide is sometimes used as a bluff to get one's way.	No evidence	x	adult	"So suicide is sometimes resorted to in order to harass and burden others. The threat of suicide is sometimes used as a bluff to get one's way.
"	na	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	na	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		firsthand
635	syme	Cultural model	Tlingit	According to native custom, if a person commits suicide because some one has offended him, or opposed a wish of his, heavy damages or a life must be given to the tribe of the suicide by the tribe of the one giving the offence. So suicide is sometimes resorted to in order to harass and burden others. The threat of suicide is sometimes used as a bluff to get one's way.	No evidence	x	unknown	According to native custom, if a person commits suicide because some one has offended him, or opposed a wish of his, 	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	According to native custom, if a person commits suicide because some one has offended him, or opposed a wish of his, 	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	"According to native custom, if a person commits suicide because some one has offended him, or opposed a wish of his, heavy damages or a life must be given to the tribe of the suicide by the tribe of the one giving the offence. So suicide is sometimes resorted to in order to harass and burden others. 
"	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	social partner	unknown	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	1	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	According to native custom, if a person commits suicide because some one has offended him, or opposed a wish of his, heavy damages or a life must be given to the tribe of the suicide by the tribe of the one giving the offence. So suicide is sometimes resorted to in order to harass and burden others. 	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
636	zgarfield	Case	Trobriands	In each of these cases it was open to the woman simply [p. 121] to leave her husband; or, in the last quoted incident, to return to him. In each, she was evidently prevented from adopting this easy solution by some strong attachment, or by amour propre and a sense of personal honour. Death was preferable to life in the village where she had been dishonoured, preferable too to life in any other village. It was unbearable to live with the man, and impossible to live without him, a state of mind which, though it might seem incredible among savages whose sexual life is so easy and carnal, yet can exercise real influence on their married life.	No evidence	x	adult	Death was preferable to life in the village where she had been dishonoured, preferable too to life in any other village. It was unbearable to live with the man, and impossible to live without him, a state of mind which, though it might seem incredible among savages whose sexual life is so easy and carnal, yet can exercise real influence on their married life.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Death was preferable to life in the village where she had been dishonoured, preferable too to life in any other village. It was unbearable to live with the man, and impossible to live without him, a state of mind which, though it might seem incredible among savages whose sexual life is so easy and carnal, yet can exercise real influence on their married life.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	" Death was preferable to life in the village where she had been dishonoured, preferable too to life in any other village. It was unbearable to live with the man, and impossible to live without him, a state of mind which, though it might seem incredible among savages whose sexual life is so easy and carnal, yet can exercise real influence on their married life.
"	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		unknown	dishonoured	" Death was preferable to life in the village where she had been dishonoured, preferable too to life in any other village. It was unbearable to live with the man, and impossible to live without him, a state of mind which, though it might seem incredible among savages whose sexual life is so easy and carnal, yet can exercise real influence on their married life.
"	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
636	syme	Case	Trobriands	In each of these cases it was open to the woman simply [p. 121] to leave her husband; or, in the last quoted incident, to return to him. In each, she was evidently prevented from adopting this easy solution by some strong attachment, or by amour propre and a sense of personal honour. Death was preferable to life in the village where she had been dishonoured, preferable too to life in any other village. It was unbearable to live with the man, and impossible to live without him, a state of mind which, though it might seem incredible among savages whose sexual life is so easy and carnal, yet can exercise real influence on their married life.	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	In each of these cases it was open to the woman simply [p. 121] to leave her husband; or, in the last quoted incident, to return to him. In each, she was evidently prevented from adopting this easy solution by some strong attachment, or by amour propre and a sense of personal honour. Death was preferable to life in the village where she had been dishonoured, preferable too to life in any other village. It was unbearable to live with the man, and impossible to live without him, a state of mind which, though it might seem incredible among savages whose sexual life is so easy and carnal, yet can exercise real influence on their married life.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	In each of these cases it was open to the woman simply [p. 121] to leave her husband; or, in the last quoted incident, to return to him. In each, she was evidently prevented from adopting this easy solution by some strong attachment, or by amour propre and a sense of personal honour. Death was preferable to life in the village where she had been dishonoured, preferable too to life in any other village. It was unbearable to live with the man, and impossible to live without him, a state of mind which, though it might seem incredible among savages whose sexual life is so easy and carnal, yet can exercise real influence on their married life.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	Death was preferable to life in the village where she had been dishonoured, preferable too to life in any other village.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult,unknown	husband	female		Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	unknown,rate	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	unknown	dishonored	It was unbearable to live with the man, and impossible to live without him	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence against	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	unknown
638	zgarfield	Cultural model	Akan	Other taboos. Murder and suicide were regarded as cases which should be submitted to the central authority for hearing, so that justice could be done. It was feared that the ghost of a murdered man would disturb the chief until a judicial investigation had been held, and blood exacted for blood. The Ashanti maxim on this is: Y&epsiv;de mogya na tene mogya (blood is righted with blood). It was the chief's duty to prevent any supernatural reprisal by trying the murderer.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	unknown	x 	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
638	syme	Cultural model	Akan	Other taboos. Murder and suicide were regarded as cases which should be submitted to the central authority for hearing, so that justice could be done. It was feared that the ghost of a murdered man would disturb the chief until a judicial investigation had been held, and blood exacted for blood. The Ashanti maxim on this is: Y&epsiv;de mogya na tene mogya (blood is righted with blood). It was the chief's duty to prevent any supernatural reprisal by trying the murderer.	No evidence	haunt social group	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly,fearfully	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	It was feared that the ghost of a murdered man would disturb the chief until a judicial investigation had been held, and blood exacted for blood. The Ashanti maxim on this is: Y&epsiv;de mogya na tene mogya (blood is righted with blood). It was the chief's duty to prevent any supernatural reprisal by trying the murderer.	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
648	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tlingit	"Among those actively engaged in fighting there seems to have been no taking of prisoners, no showing of mercy toward the wounded, no asking for mercy. I was told of one occasion when a man was wounded but the victor refused to finish him off. Instead he threw an insult, saying, ""You are not worthy of being killed for the death of So-and-so."" Later a member of a neutral clan came by and the wounded man made a plea for aid, saying, ""I take hold of the hem of your daughter's dress."" The neutral aided him but later threw him aside in disgust at his cowardice and the wounded man was killed. After the fighting was over the victim's mother learned of his behavior and, in utter shame, cut her own throat. At Loring there were only the women in the fort. When the returning canoe was sighted, Xuka's mother met it to get the news. She was told, ""Xetlkwa[unknown]ni wutxa"" (The Xekkwan have all been killed). Then she asked, ""What became of my son?"" and one of the three survivors said, ""Xett[unknown]axoxo"" (He turned coward). At this she took her knife, sharpened it well, and then said, ""I wonder what my son thought, at the end of his life."" So saying, she cut her own throat, completely severing her head, it is said."	Evidence for	x	adult	"The neutral aided him but later threw him aside in disgust at his cowardice and the wounded man was killed. After the fighting was over the victim's mother learned of his behavior and, in utter shame, cut her own throat. At Loring there were only the women in the fort. When the returning canoe was sighted, Xuka's mother met it to get the news. She was told, ""Xetlkwa[unknown]ni wutxa"" (The Xekkwan have all been killed). Then she asked, ""What became of my son?"" and one of the three survivors said, ""Xett[unknown]axoxo"" (He turned coward). At this she took her knife, sharpened it well, and then said, ""I wonder what my son thought, at the end of his life."" So saying, she cut her own throat, completely severing her head, it is said."	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	"The neutral aided him but later threw him aside in disgust at his cowardice and the wounded man was killed. After the fighting was over the victim's mother learned of his behavior and, in utter shame, cut her own throat. At Loring there were only the women in the fort. When the returning canoe was sighted, Xuka's mother met it to get the news. She was told, ""Xetlkwa[unknown]ni wutxa"" (The Xekkwan have all been killed). Then she asked, ""What became of my son?"" and one of the three survivors said, ""Xett[unknown]axoxo"" (He turned coward). At this she took her knife, sharpened it well, and then said, ""I wonder what my son thought, at the end of his life."" So saying, she cut her own throat, completely severing her head, it is said."	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	bleed_to_death	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	death of a loved one	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	shame	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	no	No evidence		firsthand
648	syme	Cultural model	Tlingit	"Among those actively engaged in fighting there seems to have been no taking of prisoners, no showing of mercy toward the wounded, no asking for mercy. I was told of one occasion when a man was wounded but the victor refused to finish him off. Instead he threw an insult, saying, ""You are not worthy of being killed for the death of So-and-so."" Later a member of a neutral clan came by and the wounded man made a plea for aid, saying, ""I take hold of the hem of your daughter's dress."" The neutral aided him but later threw him aside in disgust at his cowardice and the wounded man was killed. After the fighting was over the victim's mother learned of his behavior and, in utter shame, cut her own throat. At Loring there were only the women in the fort. When the returning canoe was sighted, Xuka's mother met it to get the news. She was told, ""Xetlkwa[unknown]ni wutxa"" (The Xekkwan have all been killed). Then she asked, ""What became of my son?"" and one of the three survivors said, ""Xett[unknown]axoxo"" (He turned coward). At this she took her knife, sharpened it well, and then said, ""I wonder what my son thought, at the end of his life."" So saying, she cut her own throat, completely severing her head, it is said."	No evidence	x	unknown	"At Loring there were only the women in the fort. When the returning canoe was sighted, Xuka's mother met it to get the news. She was told, ""Xetlkwa[unknown]ni wutxa"" (The Xekkwan have all been killed). Then she asked, ""What became of my son?"" and one of the three survivors said, ""Xett[unknown]axoxo"" (He turned coward). At this she took her knife, sharpened it well, and then said, ""I wonder what my son thought, at the end of his life."" So saying, she cut her own throat, completely severing her head, it is said."	death loved one,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"At Loring there were only the women in the fort. When the returning canoe was sighted, Xuka's mother met it to get the news. She was told, ""Xetlkwa[unknown]ni wutxa"" (The Xekkwan have all been killed). Then she asked, ""What became of my son?"" and one of the three survivors said, ""Xett[unknown]axoxo"" (He turned coward). At this she took her knife, sharpened it well, and then said, ""I wonder what my son thought, at the end of his life."" So saying, she cut her own throat, completely severing her head, it is said."	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	bleed_to_death	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	outgroup	na	son	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		war	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	unknown	shame	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
658	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chuuk	"If a parent or lineage head adamantly refuses to grant permission for a marriage the couple usually simply abandon the attempt to get married and seek other partners. One device remains to them, however, and some determined young people try it: they run away and hide in the interior of the island or go to a nearby island, inhabited or uninhabited as they deem appropriate. It is impossible to go anywhere on Truk and take up an incognito life without running into ""relatives,"" and furthermore a marriage is not a marriage without the approval of the members of the respective families, so a true elopement is not possible; if permission is still refused the gesture is in vain. However, its effectiveness lies in the fact that this pattern of the young couple running away (which is reminiscent of children hiding away when they have been beaten) carries implicit in it the threat that they will commit suicide by hanging themselves in the bush if they are further refused. A great search is undertaken and when the couple are discovered everyone is immensely relieved to find them still alive, even though they may have actually never mentioned suicide to anyone."	No evidence	x	young adult	"However, its effectiveness lies in the fact that this pattern of the young couple running away (which is reminiscent of children hiding away when they have been beaten) carries implicit in it the threat that they will commit suicide by hanging themselves in the bush if they are further refused. A great search is undertaken and when the couple are discovered everyone is immensely relieved to find them still alive, even though they may have actually never mentioned suicide to anyone.
"	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"However, its effectiveness lies in the fact that this pattern of the young couple running away (which is reminiscent of children hiding away when they have been beaten) carries implicit in it the threat that they will commit suicide by hanging themselves in the bush if they are further refused. A great search is undertaken and when the couple are discovered everyone is immensely relieved to find them still alive, even though they may have actually never mentioned suicide to anyone.
"	fearfully	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	kin	both	na	No evidence	both		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		no	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	Evidence for	na	no	No evidence		na
658	syme	Cultural model	Chuuk	"If a parent or lineage head adamantly refuses to grant permission for a marriage the couple usually simply abandon the attempt to get married and seek other partners. One device remains to them, however, and some determined young people try it: they run away and hide in the interior of the island or go to a nearby island, inhabited or uninhabited as they deem appropriate. It is impossible to go anywhere on Truk and take up an incognito life without running into ""relatives,"" and furthermore a marriage is not a marriage without the approval of the members of the respective families, so a true elopement is not possible; if permission is still refused the gesture is in vain. However, its effectiveness lies in the fact that this pattern of the young couple running away (which is reminiscent of children hiding away when they have been beaten) carries implicit in it the threat that they will commit suicide by hanging themselves in the bush if they are further refused. A great search is undertaken and when the couple are discovered everyone is immensely relieved to find them still alive, even though they may have actually never mentioned suicide to anyone."	No evidence	x	young adult	If a parent or lineage head adamantly refuses to grant permission for a marriage the couple usually simply abandon the attempt to get married and seek other partners. One device remains to them, however, and some determined young people try it: they run away and hide in the interior of the island or go to a nearby island, inhabited or uninhabited as they deem appropriate..	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	If a parent or lineage head adamantly refuses to grant permission for a marriage the couple usually simply abandon the attempt to get married and seek other partners. One device remains to them, however, and some determined young people try it: they run away and hide in the interior of the island or go to a nearby island, inhabited or uninhabited as they deem appropriate.	ambivalently,pityingly	emic	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	hanging,subject_to_elements	 However, its effectiveness lies in the fact that this pattern of the young couple running away (which is reminiscent of children hiding away when they have been beaten) carries implicit in it the threat that they will commit suicide by hanging themselves in the bush if they are further refused. A great search is undertaken and when the couple are discovered everyone is immensely relieved to find them still alive, even though they may have actually never mentioned suicide to anyone.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	adult,elder	parents	both	na	No evidence	both	parents	Evidence for		no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	run away	x	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	2	x	 A great search is undertaken and when the couple are discovered everyone is immensely relieved to find them still alive, even though they may have actually never mentioned suicide to anyone.	x	Evidence for	public	no	Evidence against	unknown	na
659	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chuuk	In his provocative article on the sweetheart relationship, Swartz (1958) concludes that men more than women deal with their aggressive feelings by turning them inward upon themselves. Along these lines of masochistic masculine aggression in Truk it is worth recalling that the vast majority of suicides in Greater Trukese Society likewise involve males rather than females (see chapter 4, case 10 and Hezel 1976). I submit that drunkenness may be profitably viewed as an extension of this proclivity for male masochism. While drunk, young men quite frequently get reprimanded by elder kinsmen, thrown in jail, beaten up, wounded, and occasionally even killed. All this inward aggression is brought on voluntarily by assuming the social identity of the drunk. Young male Trukese drunks prove their courage as much by their ability to withstand pain resulting from masochistic exposure to danger as by overt aggressive acts against others.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult	Along these lines of masochistic masculine aggression in Truk it is worth recalling that the vast majority of suicides in Greater Trukese Society likewise involve males rather than females	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	Along these lines of masochistic masculine aggression in Truk it is worth recalling that the vast majority of suicides in Greater Trukese Society likewise involve males rather than females	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	I submit that drunkenness may be profitably viewed as an extension of this proclivity for male masochism. While drunk, young men quite frequently get reprimanded by elder kinsmen, thrown in jail, beaten up, wounded, and occasionally even killed. All this inward aggression is brought on voluntarily by assuming the social identity of the drunk. 		x	x		na	aggressive feelings 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	no	No evidence		firsthand
659	syme	Cultural model	Chuuk	In his provocative article on the sweetheart relationship, Swartz (1958) concludes that men more than women deal with their aggressive feelings by turning them inward upon themselves. Along these lines of masochistic masculine aggression in Truk it is worth recalling that the vast majority of suicides in Greater Trukese Society likewise involve males rather than females (see chapter 4, case 10 and Hezel 1976). I submit that drunkenness may be profitably viewed as an extension of this proclivity for male masochism. While drunk, young men quite frequently get reprimanded by elder kinsmen, thrown in jail, beaten up, wounded, and occasionally even killed. All this inward aggression is brought on voluntarily by assuming the social identity of the drunk. Young male Trukese drunks prove their courage as much by their ability to withstand pain resulting from masochistic exposure to danger as by overt aggressive acts against others.	No evidence	x	young adult	 In his provocative article on the sweetheart relationship, Swartz (1958) concludes that men more than women deal with their aggressive feelings by turning them inward upon themselves. 	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 In his provocative article on the sweetheart relationship, Swartz (1958) concludes that men more than women deal with their aggressive feelings by turning them inward upon themselves. 	unknown	etic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for		unknown	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	drinking	x	x	x	assoc. alcoholism	unknown	aggressive feelings 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
672	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tikopia	"The views of the more sophisticated Tikopia Christians follow those of their priest. For example, one man who had himself been a Mission teacher discussed the Christian attitude to suicide. Each man's soul belongs to God and each man should await the time of his death, 'following the will of the Lord'. Hence the man who commits suicide does not go to Paradise, he goes to Satan. The reason for this is that the Bible says it is wrong for a man to take his own life. If a person should commit suicide then it is for the priest to make the proper prayers at the altar of the church so that the soul of the man may go to the proper place. The family of the person cannot themselves perform this service or intercede with God in any way--only the priest can do this. Normally the family of a suicide does not make any special inquiry about his fate. But if they do worry about the situation they may go to the priest and ask him for special prayers, and they substantiate their request by presenting to the priest a pandanus mat. But, it was added, 'once a man is in the ground people do not worry about him or think too much of him unless he starts to ""walk"".'1"	No evidence	Each man's soul belongs to God and each man should await the time of his death, 'following the will of the Lord'. Hence the man who commits suicide does not go to Paradise, he goes to Satan. 	unknown	x	na	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated,na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	na		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	If a person should commit suicide then it is for the priest to make the proper prayers at the altar of the church so that the soul of the man may go to the proper place. The family of the person cannot themselves perform this service or intercede with God in any way--only the priest can do this.	yes	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		na
672	syme	Cultural model	Tikopia	"The views of the more sophisticated Tikopia Christians follow those of their priest. For example, one man who had himself been a Mission teacher discussed the Christian attitude to suicide. Each man's soul belongs to God and each man should await the time of his death, 'following the will of the Lord'. Hence the man who commits suicide does not go to Paradise, he goes to Satan. The reason for this is that the Bible says it is wrong for a man to take his own life. If a person should commit suicide then it is for the priest to make the proper prayers at the altar of the church so that the soul of the man may go to the proper place. The family of the person cannot themselves perform this service or intercede with God in any way--only the priest can do this. Normally the family of a suicide does not make any special inquiry about his fate. But if they do worry about the situation they may go to the priest and ask him for special prayers, and they substantiate their request by presenting to the priest a pandanus mat. But, it was added, 'once a man is in the ground people do not worry about him or think too much of him unless he starts to ""walk"".'1"	No evidence	negative	unknown	x	na	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	"The views of the more sophisticated Tikopia Christians follow those of their priest. For example, one man who had himself been a Mission teacher discussed the Christian attitude to suicide. Each man's soul belongs to God and each man should await the time of his death, 'following the will of the Lord'. Hence the man who commits suicide does not go to Paradise, he goes to Satan. The reason for this is that the Bible says it is wrong for a man to take his own life. If a person should commit suicide then it is for the priest to make the proper prayers at the altar of the church so that the soul of the man may go to the proper place. The family of the person cannot themselves perform this service or intercede with God in any way--only the priest can do this. Normally the family of a suicide does not make any special inquiry about his fate. But if they do worry about the situation they may go to the priest and ask him for special prayers, and they substantiate their request by presenting to the priest a pandanus mat. But, it was added, 'once a man is in the ground people do not worry about him or think too much of him unless he starts to ""walk"".'1"	yes	x	x	x	x	No evidence	na		No evidence	na	na
673	zgarfield	Case	Tikopia	The emergency measures put into operation after the second hurricane, in 1953, were, by Spillius's account, rather more delayed. In the intervening year the people had suffered great privation and this second hurricane seemed to them the last drop in their bitter cup. There was much talk about putting off to sea on suicide voyages and about asking the Government to remove all the population to another island.	No evidence	x	adult	"In the intervening year the people had suffered great privation and this second hurricane seemed to them the last drop in their bitter cup. There was much talk about putting off to sea on suicide voyages and about asking the Government to remove all the population to another island.
"	resource loss	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"The emergency measures put into operation after the second hurricane, in 1953, were, by Spillius's account, rather more delayed. In the intervening year the people had suffered great privation and this second hurricane seemed to them the last drop in their bitter cup. There was much talk about putting off to sea on suicide voyages and about asking the Government to remove all the population to another island.
"	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	political power	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	plan	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	 In the intervening year the people had suffered great privation and this second hurricane seemed to them the last drop in their bitter cup. There was much talk about putting off to sea on suicide voyages	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	Evidence for	na	unknown	No evidence		secondhand
673	syme	Case	Tikopia	The emergency measures put into operation after the second hurricane, in 1953, were, by Spillius's account, rather more delayed. In the intervening year the people had suffered great privation and this second hurricane seemed to them the last drop in their bitter cup. There was much talk about putting off to sea on suicide voyages and about asking the Government to remove all the population to another island.	Evidence for	x	unknown	The emergency measures put into operation after the second hurricane, in 1953, were, by Spillius's account, rather more delayed. In the intervening year the people had suffered great privation and this second hurricane seemed to them the last drop in their bitter cup. There was much talk about putting off to sea on suicide voyages and about asking the Government to remove all the population to another island.	resource loss,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		natural disaster	threat,plan	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	bitterness	The emergency measures put into operation after the second hurricane, in 1953, were, by Spillius's account, rather more delayed. In the intervening year the people had suffered great privation and this second hurricane seemed to them the last drop in their bitter cup. There was much talk about putting off to sea on suicide voyages and about asking the Government to remove all the population to another island.	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	public	no	No evidence	unknown	documented_account
674	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tikopia	The isolation of the island means also that migration in time of any real food scarcity would be inhibited. In famine conditions escape from distress in canoes has occured but is regarded by the Tikopia as practically equivalent to suicide. Normally the dangers of the vast expanse of surrounding ocean are sufficient to check all but the unmarried men, or those who wish to throw away their lives. Moreover, the idea of any mass-migration to a permanent home elsewhere was viewed with great distaste by the Tikopia with whom I discussed it.	Evidence for	x	young adult,adult	In famine conditions escape from distress in canoes has occured but is regarded by the Tikopia as practically equivalent to suicide. Normally the dangers of the vast expanse of surrounding ocean are sufficient to check all but the unmarried men, or those who wish to throw away their lives. 	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	fearfully	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	escape from distress 	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	natural disaster	unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	escape from distress 	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		na
674	syme	Cultural model	Tikopia	The isolation of the island means also that migration in time of any real food scarcity would be inhibited. In famine conditions escape from distress in canoes has occured but is regarded by the Tikopia as practically equivalent to suicide. Normally the dangers of the vast expanse of surrounding ocean are sufficient to check all but the unmarried men, or those who wish to throw away their lives. Moreover, the idea of any mass-migration to a permanent home elsewhere was viewed with great distaste by the Tikopia with whom I discussed it.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	assoc. unmarried	unknown	x	x	x	x	na	x	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence	unknown	na
675	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tikopia	Regarding violence, I said that responsible maru were making every effort to prevent excitement of the population and that they also discouraged ideas offorou (suicide voyage).	No evidence	x	unknown	Regarding violence, I said that responsible maru were making every effort to prevent excitement of the population and that they also discouraged ideas offorou (suicide voyage).	na	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence		unknown	No evidence		na
675	syme	Cultural model	Tikopia	Regarding violence, I said that responsible maru were making every effort to prevent excitement of the population and that they also discouraged ideas offorou (suicide voyage).	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	subject_to_elements	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
676	zgarfield	Cultural model	Trobriands	Obscene language is a common cause of strife. To tell a man to have intercourse with his sister, or vice versa , or to make other remarks in anger, which are considered lewd to the native, is a sure source of trouble. It was only a few years before this war that a girl was charged with manslaughter, because she killed her sister who had sworn at her in anger in a public place. The girl had remained a short period in gaol awaiting trial by the central court, and after convicting her, H.H. Mr. Justice Murray [p. 52] sentenced her to the rising of the court. I made it my business, later on, to enquire into the natives' impressions concerning the case, and it would seem they were quite in accord with the sentence passed. However, had that girl not been taken into custody for a time, it is possible that she might have made away with herself, if public opinion had been against the crime.	No evidence	x	young adult	 I made it my business, later on, to enquire into the natives' impressions concerning the case, and it would seem they were quite in accord with the sentence passed. However, had that girl not been taken into custody for a time, it is possible that she might have made away with herself, if public opinion had been against the crime.	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 I made it my business, later on, to enquire into the natives' impressions concerning the case, and it would seem they were quite in accord with the sentence passed. However, had that girl not been taken into custody for a time, it is possible that she might have made away with herself, if public opinion had been against the crime.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		first person
676	syme	Cultural model	Trobriands	Obscene language is a common cause of strife. To tell a man to have intercourse with his sister, or vice versa , or to make other remarks in anger, which are considered lewd to the native, is a sure source of trouble. It was only a few years before this war that a girl was charged with manslaughter, because she killed her sister who had sworn at her in anger in a public place. The girl had remained a short period in gaol awaiting trial by the central court, and after convicting her, H.H. Mr. Justice Murray [p. 52] sentenced her to the rising of the court. I made it my business, later on, to enquire into the natives' impressions concerning the case, and it would seem they were quite in accord with the sentence passed. However, had that girl not been taken into custody for a time, it is possible that she might have made away with herself, if public opinion had been against the crime.	No evidence	x	unknown	Obscene language is a common cause of strife. To tell a man to have intercourse with his sister, or vice versa , or to make other remarks in anger, which are considered lewd to the native, is a sure source of trouble. It was only a few years before this war that a girl was charged with manslaughter, because she killed her sister who had sworn at her in anger in a public place. The girl had remained a short period in gaol awaiting trial by the central court, and after convicting her, H.H. Mr. Justice Murray [p. 52] sentenced her to the rising of the court. I made it my business, later on, to enquire into the natives' impressions concerning the case, and it would seem they were quite in accord with the sentence passed. However, had that girl not been taken into custody for a time, it is possible that she might have made away with herself, if public opinion had been against the crime.	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Obscene language is a common cause of strife. To tell a man to have intercourse with his sister, or vice versa , or to make other remarks in anger, which are considered lewd to the native, is a sure source of trouble. It was only a few years before this war that a girl was charged with manslaughter, because she killed her sister who had sworn at her in anger in a public place. The girl had remained a short period in gaol awaiting trial by the central court, and after convicting her, H.H. Mr. Justice Murray [p. 52] sentenced her to the rising of the court. I made it my business, later on, to enquire into the natives' impressions concerning the case, and it would seem they were quite in accord with the sentence passed. However, had that girl not been taken into custody for a time, it is possible that she might have made away with herself, if public opinion had been against the crime.	unknown	emic	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	unknown	social partner	unknown	na	Evidence for	both	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	commit homicide sister	x	x	x	commit homicide	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
677	zgarfield	Cultural model	Trobriands	"The Native Regulations of Papua also give a magistrate power to decide ""civil claims"" where debts of any description can be settled or compensation made. It will be seen therefore that to-day there is social machinery to cover practically all offences against order in society. Suicide was more common in the past than it is at the present time, but even so we cannot stand by and allow life to be sold cheaply simply because we are anxious to preserve all ancient customs. If by gaoling an [p. 55] offender for a period we can give a person time to recover from some native shame, or return to the village when it has recovered its normality, it is better surely to do so than allow reprisals to take place, or else someone to commit suicide. ""Saving one's face"" is a sentiment deeply rooted in Kiriwinan society, and by an offender being gaoled for a time, he has saved his face, and is able to return and once more take his place in society."	No evidence	x	adult	"Suicide was more common in the past than it is at the present time, but even so we cannot stand by and allow life to be sold cheaply simply because we are anxious to preserve all ancient customs. If by gaoling an [p. 55] offender for a period we can give a person time to recover from some native shame, or return to the village when it has recovered its normality, it is better surely to do so than allow reprisals to take place, or else someone to commit suicide. ""Saving one's face"" is a sentiment deeply rooted in Kiriwinan society, and by an offender being gaoled for a time, he has saved his face, and is able to return and once more take his place in society."	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	"Suicide was more common in the past than it is at the present time, but even so we cannot stand by and allow life to be sold cheaply simply because we are anxious to preserve all ancient customs. If by gaoling an [p. 55] offender for a period we can give a person time to recover from some native shame, or return to the village when it has recovered its normality, it is better surely to do so than allow reprisals to take place, or else someone to commit suicide. ""Saving one's face"" is a sentiment deeply rooted in Kiriwinan society, and by an offender being gaoled for a time, he has saved his face, and is able to return and once more take his place in society."	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	shame	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
677	syme	Cultural model	Trobriands	"The Native Regulations of Papua also give a magistrate power to decide ""civil claims"" where debts of any description can be settled or compensation made. It will be seen therefore that to-day there is social machinery to cover practically all offences against order in society. Suicide was more common in the past than it is at the present time, but even so we cannot stand by and allow life to be sold cheaply simply because we are anxious to preserve all ancient customs. If by gaoling an [p. 55] offender for a period we can give a person time to recover from some native shame, or return to the village when it has recovered its normality, it is better surely to do so than allow reprisals to take place, or else someone to commit suicide. ""Saving one's face"" is a sentiment deeply rooted in Kiriwinan society, and by an offender being gaoled for a time, he has saved his face, and is able to return and once more take his place in society."	No evidence	x	unknown	"The Native Regulations of Papua also give a magistrate power to decide ""civil claims"" where debts of any description can be settled or compensation made. It will be seen therefore that to-day there is social machinery to cover practically all offences against order in society. Suicide was more common in the past than it is at the present time, but even so we cannot stand by and allow life to be sold cheaply simply because we are anxious to preserve all ancient customs. If by gaoling an [p. 55] offender for a period we can give a person time to recover from some native shame, or return to the village when it has recovered its normality, it is better surely to do so than allow reprisals to take place, or else someone to commit suicide. ""Saving one's face"" is a sentiment deeply rooted in Kiriwinan society, and by an offender being gaoled for a time, he has saved his face, and is able to return and once more take his place in society."	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	social group	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	shame	"The Native Regulations of Papua also give a magistrate power to decide ""civil claims"" where debts of any description can be settled or compensation made. It will be seen therefore that to-day there is social machinery to cover practically all offences against order in society. Suicide was more common in the past than it is at the present time, but even so we cannot stand by and allow life to be sold cheaply simply because we are anxious to preserve all ancient customs. If by gaoling an [p. 55] offender for a period we can give a person time to recover from some native shame, or return to the village when it has recovered its normality, it is better surely to do so than allow reprisals to take place, or else someone to commit suicide. ""Saving one's face"" is a sentiment deeply rooted in Kiriwinan society, and by an offender being gaoled for a time, he has saved his face, and is able to return and once more take his place in society."	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	na	unknown	Evidence for	low	unknown
758	zgarfield	Cultural model	Akan	Murder and assault were capital crimes, and suicide a capital sin.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated		x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		unknown
758	syme	Cultural model	Akan	Murder and assault were capital crimes, and suicide a capital sin.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
759	zgarfield	Cultural model	Akan	As already mentioned some categories of death require a quiet funeral, for example the loss of a first baby, death by suicide and in the old days death at childbirth. Custom discourages the singing of dirges in these instances.	No evidence	x	na	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	na	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	na		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	As already mentioned some categories of death require a quiet funeral, for example the loss of a first baby, death by suicide and in the old days death at childbirth	yes	x	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		na
759	syme	Cultural model	Akan	As already mentioned some categories of death require a quiet funeral, for example the loss of a first baby, death by suicide and in the old days death at childbirth. Custom discourages the singing of dirges in these instances.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	yes	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
760	zgarfield	Cultural model	Akan	The sasa is the invisible spiritual power of a person or animal, which disturbs the mind of the living, or works a spell or mischief upon them, so that they suffer in various ways. Persons who are always taking life have to be particularly careful to guard against sasa influence, and it is among them that its action is mainly seen, e. g. among executioners, hunters, butchers, and, as a later developmentamong sawyerswho cut down the great forest trees. The remorse that might drive the murderer in this country to confession or to suicide, the Ashanti would explain at once as the operation of the sasa of the murdered man upon his murderer. I have mentioned occasionally in the preceding pages the steps taken to avoid the vengeance of the sasa. The sasa is essentially the bad, revengeful, and hurtful element in a spirit; it is that part which at all costs must be laid or rendered innocuous. The funeral rites which are now being dealt with are really, I believe, the placating, appeasing, and the final speeding of a soul which may contain this very dangerous element in its composition.	No evidence	x	adult	Persons who are always taking life have to be particularly careful to guard against sasa influence, and it is among them that its action is mainly seen, e. g. among executioners, hunters, butchers, and, as a later developmentamong sawyerswho cut down the great forest trees. The remorse that might drive the murderer in this country to confession or to suicide	spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	Persons who are always taking life have to be particularly careful to guard against sasa influence, and it is among them that its action is mainly seen, e. g. among executioners, hunters, butchers, and, as a later developmentamong sawyerswho cut down the great forest trees. The remorse that might drive the murderer in this country to confession or to suicide	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	remorse	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
760	syme	Cultural model	Akan	The sasa is the invisible spiritual power of a person or animal, which disturbs the mind of the living, or works a spell or mischief upon them, so that they suffer in various ways. Persons who are always taking life have to be particularly careful to guard against sasa influence, and it is among them that its action is mainly seen, e. g. among executioners, hunters, butchers, and, as a later developmentamong sawyerswho cut down the great forest trees. The remorse that might drive the murderer in this country to confession or to suicide, the Ashanti would explain at once as the operation of the sasa of the murdered man upon his murderer. I have mentioned occasionally in the preceding pages the steps taken to avoid the vengeance of the sasa. The sasa is essentially the bad, revengeful, and hurtful element in a spirit; it is that part which at all costs must be laid or rendered innocuous. The funeral rites which are now being dealt with are really, I believe, the placating, appeasing, and the final speeding of a soul which may contain this very dangerous element in its composition.	No evidence	x	unknown	The sasa is the invisible spiritual power of a person or animal, which disturbs the mind of the living, or works a spell or mischief upon them, so that they suffer in various ways. Persons who are always taking life have to be particularly careful to guard against sasa influence, and it is among them that its action is mainly seen, e. g. among executioners, hunters, butchers, and, as a later developmentamong sawyerswho cut down the great forest trees. The remorse that might drive the murderer in this country to confession or to suicide, the Ashanti would explain at once as the operation of the sasa of the murdered man upon his murderer. I have mentioned occasionally in the preceding pages the steps taken to avoid the vengeance of the sasa. The sasa is essentially the bad, revengeful, and hurtful element in a spirit; it is that part which at all costs must be laid or rendered innocuous. The funeral rites which are now being dealt with are really, I believe, the placating, appeasing, and the final speeding of a soul which may contain this very dangerous element in its composition.	accus_commit wrongdo,spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	The sasa is the invisible spiritual power of a person or animal, which disturbs the mind of the living, or works a spell or mischief upon them, so that they suffer in various ways. Persons who are always taking life have to be particularly careful to guard against sasa influence, and it is among them that its action is mainly seen, e. g. among executioners, hunters, butchers, and, as a later developmentamong sawyerswho cut down the great forest trees. The remorse that might drive the murderer in this country to confession or to suicide, the Ashanti would explain at once as the operation of the sasa of the murdered man upon his murderer. I have mentioned occasionally in the preceding pages the steps taken to avoid the vengeance of the sasa. The sasa is essentially the bad, revengeful, and hurtful element in a spirit; it is that part which at all costs must be laid or rendered innocuous. The funeral rites which are now being dealt with are really, I believe, the placating, appeasing, and the final speeding of a soul which may contain this very dangerous element in its composition.	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	remorse	x	x	x	yes	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
761	zgarfield	Case	Akan	1834. Kwofi Ekem committed suicide by gunpowder explosion, Sept. 6.	No evidence	x	adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	shooting	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		documented_account
761	syme	Case	Akan	1834. Kwofi Ekem committed suicide by gunpowder explosion, Sept. 6.	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	blew_up	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
762	zgarfield	Cultural model	Akan	So much annoyance, mischief, and injury is caused by the reckless imputation of witchcraft, that many a woman has been known to commit suicide, unable to bear the disgrace of a false imputation.	No evidence	x	adult	 So much annoyance, mischief, and injury is caused by the reckless imputation of witchcraft, that many a woman has been known to commit suicide, unable to bear the disgrace of a false imputation.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 So much annoyance, mischief, and injury is caused by the reckless imputation of witchcraft, that many a woman has been known to commit suicide, unable to bear the disgrace of a false imputation.		emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	"So much annoyance, mischief, and injury is caused by the reckless imputation of witchcraft, that many a woman has been known to commit suicide, unable to bear the disgrace of a false imputation.
"	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	disgrace	"So much annoyance, mischief, and injury is caused by the reckless imputation of witchcraft, that many a woman has been known to commit suicide, unable to bear the disgrace of a false imputation.
"	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
762	syme	Cultural model	Akan	So much annoyance, mischief, and injury is caused by the reckless imputation of witchcraft, that many a woman has been known to commit suicide, unable to bear the disgrace of a false imputation.	No evidence	x	unknown	So much annoyance, mischief, and injury is caused by the reckless imputation of witchcraft, that many a woman has been known to commit suicide, unable to bear the disgrace of a false imputation.	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	So much annoyance, mischief, and injury is caused by the reckless imputation of witchcraft, that many a woman has been known to commit suicide, unable to bear the disgrace of a false imputation.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	social group	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	witchcraft	unknown	disgrace	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	low	na
763	zgarfield	Cultural model	Akan	Instances are known where the debt not Page: 115 having been paid the creditor has died of starvation. Sometimes, as the day draws to a close, the creditor swears to commit suicide if the debt be not paid before sunset. If in such a case the debt be not paid, and the creditor doth commit suicide, the debtor is bound to bear the funeral expenses in addition to paying the original debt and making substantial compensation to the family of the deceased creditor.	No evidence	x	adult	"Sometimes, as the day draws to a close, the creditor swears to commit suicide if the debt be not paid before sunset. If in such a case the debt be not paid, and the creditor doth commit suicide, the debtor is bound to bear the funeral expenses in addition to paying the original debt and making substantial compensation to the family of the deceased creditor.
"	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Sometimes, as the day draws to a close, the creditor swears to commit suicide if the debt be not paid before sunset. If in such a case the debt be not paid, and the creditor doth commit suicide, the debtor is bound to bear the funeral expenses in addition to paying the original debt and making substantial compensation to the family of the deceased creditor.
"	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	social partners	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	no	No evidence		firsthand
763	syme	Cultural model	Akan	Instances are known where the debt not Page: 115 having been paid the creditor has died of starvation. Sometimes, as the day draws to a close, the creditor swears to commit suicide if the debt be not paid before sunset. If in such a case the debt be not paid, and the creditor doth commit suicide, the debtor is bound to bear the funeral expenses in addition to paying the original debt and making substantial compensation to the family of the deceased creditor.	No evidence	x	unknown	Instances are known where the debt not Page: 115 having been paid the creditor has died of starvation. Sometimes, as the day draws to a close, the creditor swears to commit suicide if the debt be not paid before sunset. If in such a case the debt be not paid, and the creditor doth commit suicide, the debtor is bound to bear the funeral expenses in addition to paying the original debt and making substantial compensation to the family of the deceased creditor.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Instances are known where the debt not Page: 115 having been paid the creditor has died of starvation. Sometimes, as the day draws to a close, the creditor swears to commit suicide if the debt be not paid before sunset. If in such a case the debt be not paid, and the creditor doth commit suicide, the debtor is bound to bear the funeral expenses in addition to paying the original debt and making substantial compensation to the family of the deceased creditor.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	Instances are known where the debt not Page: 115 having been paid the creditor has died of starvation. Sometimes, as the day draws to a close, the creditor swears to commit suicide if the debt be not paid before sunset. If in such a case the debt be not paid, and the creditor doth commit suicide, the debtor is bound to bear the funeral expenses in addition to paying the original debt and making substantial compensation to the family of the deceased creditor.	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult,unknown	social partner	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	threat,completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	If in such a case the debt be not paid, and the creditor doth commit suicide, the debtor is bound to bear the funeral expenses in addition to paying the original debt and making substantial compensation to the family of the deceased creditor.	x	No evidence	public	no	No evidence	unknown	na
764	zgarfield	Case	Amhara	The town of Gonder [Gondar] was abandoned by the Solomonid line when a usurping commoner chieftain, Kasssa, chose it as the location to have himself crowned King Theodore in 1855. He defeated the king of Shewa [Shoa] and held the dynastic heir, the boy Menilek II, hostage at his court. Theodore realized the urgency of uniting the many ethnic groups of the country into a nation, to prevent Ethiopia from losing its independence to European colonial powers. He invited foreign technicians and, at first, even welcomed foreign missionaries. But when the missionaries were unable to cast cannons for him and even criticized his often violent behavior, he jailed them. This led to the Lord Napier expedition, which was welcomed and assisted by the population of Tigre [Tigray] Province. When the fort of Magdalla fell, Theodore committed suicide	Evidence for	x	adult	When the fort of Magdalla fell, Theodore committed suicide	military defeat	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"He defeated the king of Shewa [Shoa] and held the dynastic heir, the boy Menilek II, hostage at his court. Theodore realized the urgency of uniting the many ethnic groups of the country into a nation, to prevent Ethiopia from losing its independence to European colonial powers. He invited foreign technicians and, at first, even welcomed foreign missionaries. But when the missionaries were unable to cast cannons for him and even criticized his often violent behavior, he jailed them. This led to the Lord Napier expedition, which was welcomed and assisted by the population of Tigre [Tigray] Province. When the fort of Magdalla fell, Theodore committed suicide
"	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	political power	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	war	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
764	syme	Case	Amhara	The town of Gonder [Gondar] was abandoned by the Solomonid line when a usurping commoner chieftain, Kasssa, chose it as the location to have himself crowned King Theodore in 1855. He defeated the king of Shewa [Shoa] and held the dynastic heir, the boy Menilek II, hostage at his court. Theodore realized the urgency of uniting the many ethnic groups of the country into a nation, to prevent Ethiopia from losing its independence to European colonial powers. He invited foreign technicians and, at first, even welcomed foreign missionaries. But when the missionaries were unable to cast cannons for him and even criticized his often violent behavior, he jailed them. This led to the Lord Napier expedition, which was welcomed and assisted by the population of Tigre [Tigray] Province. When the fort of Magdalla fell, Theodore committed suicide	Evidence for	x	adult	The town of Gonder [Gondar] was abandoned by the Solomonid line when a usurping commoner chieftain, Kasssa, chose it as the location to have himself crowned King Theodore in 1855. He defeated the king of Shewa [Shoa] and held the dynastic heir, the boy Menilek II, hostage at his court. Theodore realized the urgency of uniting the many ethnic groups of the country into a nation, to prevent Ethiopia from losing its independence to European colonial powers. He invited foreign technicians and, at first, even welcomed foreign missionaries. But when the missionaries were unable to cast cannons for him and even criticized his often violent behavior, he jailed them. This led to the Lord Napier expedition, which was welcomed and assisted by the population of Tigre [Tigray] Province. When the fort of Magdalla fell, Theodore committed suicide	military defeat	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The town of Gonder [Gondar] was abandoned by the Solomonid line when a usurping commoner chieftain, Kasssa, chose it as the location to have himself crowned King Theodore in 1855. He defeated the king of Shewa [Shoa] and held the dynastic heir, the boy Menilek II, hostage at his court. Theodore realized the urgency of uniting the many ethnic groups of the country into a nation, to prevent Ethiopia from losing its independence to European colonial powers. He invited foreign technicians and, at first, even welcomed foreign missionaries. But when the missionaries were unable to cast cannons for him and even criticized his often violent behavior, he jailed them. This led to the Lord Napier expedition, which was welcomed and assisted by the population of Tigre [Tigray] Province. When the fort of Magdalla fell, Theodore committed suicide	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	outgroup	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence against		war,combat,witness violence,perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	violent behavior	3	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	high,unknown	documented_account
765	zgarfield	Cultural model	Azande	Suicide is rare, the method usually adopted being hanging, though one case of drowning has been noted.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging,drowning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence			No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
765	syme	Cultural model	Azande	Suicide is rare, the method usually adopted being hanging, though one case of drowning has been noted.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
766	zgarfield	Case	Bemba	No mention was made of the role of the married woman. She was relegated to the kitchen behind the patriarchal home and all domestic ritual seemed slowly to have lost its sacred character. Some of its custom had to complete with the rules of hygiene as taught during domestic science classes in school, others were shrugged off as irrelevant taboos. Moreover, once cut off from the matrilineal basis of belief, all the sacred rites that favoured proper access to the forebears came under attack. For instance, the ceremony of the marriage-vessel, of the name-giving, and the special blessings with the spiritual gourd as home of the forebears were condemned as pagan practices. It was in this time that the following dance-song became very popular among the women as a reaction: According to the women the missionaries had been opposing the wrong things. They should have channelled their energy against the royal cult, rather than leaving it almost intact. Failure to carry out the traditional cleansing rituals caused considerable mental anguish among the married women that sometimes led to insanity and even suicide.	No evidence	x	adult	Failure to carry out the traditional cleansing rituals caused considerable mental anguish among the married women that sometimes led to insanity and even suicide.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	According to the women the missionaries had been opposing the wrong things. They should have channelled their energy against the royal cult, rather than leaving it almost intact. Failure to carry out the traditional cleansing rituals caused considerable mental anguish among the married women that sometimes led to insanity and even suicide.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	missionaries	unknown	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	other	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	mental anguish 	xx	x	x	not stated	1	Failure to carry out the traditional cleansing rituals caused considerable mental anguish among the married women that sometimes led to insanity and even suicide.	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		firsthand
766	syme	Case	Bemba	No mention was made of the role of the married woman. She was relegated to the kitchen behind the patriarchal home and all domestic ritual seemed slowly to have lost its sacred character. Some of its custom had to complete with the rules of hygiene as taught during domestic science classes in school, others were shrugged off as irrelevant taboos. Moreover, once cut off from the matrilineal basis of belief, all the sacred rites that favoured proper access to the forebears came under attack. For instance, the ceremony of the marriage-vessel, of the name-giving, and the special blessings with the spiritual gourd as home of the forebears were condemned as pagan practices. It was in this time that the following dance-song became very popular among the women as a reaction: According to the women the missionaries had been opposing the wrong things. They should have channelled their energy against the royal cult, rather than leaving it almost intact. Failure to carry out the traditional cleansing rituals caused considerable mental anguish among the married women that sometimes led to insanity and even suicide.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult	No mention was made of the role of the married woman. She was relegated to the kitchen behind the patriarchal home and all domestic ritual seemed slowly to have lost its sacred character. Some of its custom had to complete with the rules of hygiene as taught during domestic science classes in school, others were shrugged off as irrelevant taboos. Moreover, once cut off from the matrilineal basis of belief, all the sacred rites that favoured proper access to the forebears came under attack. For instance, the ceremony of the marriage-vessel, of the name-giving, and the special blessings with the spiritual gourd as home of the forebears were condemned as pagan practices. It was in this time that the following dance-song became very popular among the women as a reaction: According to the women the missionaries had been opposing the wrong things. They should have channelled their energy against the royal cult, rather than leaving it almost intact. Failure to carry out the traditional cleansing rituals caused considerable mental anguish among the married women that sometimes led to insanity and even suicide.	group conflict,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No mention was made of the role of the married woman. She was relegated to the kitchen behind the patriarchal home and all domestic ritual seemed slowly to have lost its sacred character. Some of its custom had to complete with the rules of hygiene as taught during domestic science classes in school, others were shrugged off as irrelevant taboos. Moreover, once cut off from the matrilineal basis of belief, all the sacred rites that favoured proper access to the forebears came under attack. For instance, the ceremony of the marriage-vessel, of the name-giving, and the special blessings with the spiritual gourd as home of the forebears were condemned as pagan practices. It was in this time that the following dance-song became very popular among the women as a reaction: According to the women the missionaries had been opposing the wrong things. They should have channelled their energy against the royal cult, rather than leaving it almost intact. Failure to carry out the traditional cleansing rituals caused considerable mental anguish among the married women that sometimes led to insanity and even suicide.	unknown	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	unknown	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	missionaries	na	na	No evidence	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	x	unknown	Failure to carry out the traditional cleansing rituals caused considerable mental anguish among the married women that sometimes led to insanity and even suicide.	x	x	x	not stated	unknown,rate	Failure to carry out the traditional cleansing rituals caused considerable mental anguish among the married women that sometimes led to insanity and even suicide.	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
767	zgarfield	Case	Bemba	In the years that followed the bloody clashes between Lumpa and the supporters of the United National Independence Party (U.N.I.P.), it was generally accepted by both sides that the Lumpas aggressiveness against the establishment had been caused by those who had used the movement as a useful vehicle for their political ends. They had been the Prophetesss lieutenants called Badikoni (Deacons). Some had betrayed her by joining the national party, others had stayed till the end but had driven the more simple adherents, many of them women and children, towards suicide and the fateful trek into neighbouring Zaire.	Evidence for	x	young adult,adult	They had been the Prophetesss lieutenants called Badikoni (Deacons). Some had betrayed her by joining the national party, others had stayed till the end but had driven the more simple adherents, many of them women and children, towards suicide and the fateful trek into neighbouring Zaire.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	They had been the Prophetesss lieutenants called Badikoni (Deacons). Some had betrayed her by joining the national party, others had stayed till the end but had driven the more simple adherents, many of them women and children, towards suicide and the fateful trek into neighbouring Zaire.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	multiple social doma	both	na	No evidence	both		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	1	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		firsthand
767	syme	Case	Bemba	In the years that followed the bloody clashes between Lumpa and the supporters of the United National Independence Party (U.N.I.P.), it was generally accepted by both sides that the Lumpas aggressiveness against the establishment had been caused by those who had used the movement as a useful vehicle for their political ends. They had been the Prophetesss lieutenants called Badikoni (Deacons). Some had betrayed her by joining the national party, others had stayed till the end but had driven the more simple adherents, many of them women and children, towards suicide and the fateful trek into neighbouring Zaire.	No evidence	x	child,young adult,adult	 In the years that followed the bloody clashes between Lumpa and the supporters of the United National Independence Party (U.N.I.P.), it was generally accepted by both sides that the Lumpas aggressiveness against the establishment had been caused by those who had used the movement as a useful vehicle for their political ends. They had been the Prophetesss lieutenants called Badikoni (Deacons). Some had betrayed her by joining the national party, others had stayed till the end but had driven the more simple adherents, many of them women and children, towards suicide and the fateful trek into neighbouring Zaire.	other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 In the years that followed the bloody clashes between Lumpa and the supporters of the United National Independence Party (U.N.I.P.), it was generally accepted by both sides that the Lumpas aggressiveness against the establishment had been caused by those who had used the movement as a useful vehicle for their political ends. They had been the Prophetesss lieutenants called Badikoni (Deacons). Some had betrayed her by joining the national party, others had stayed till the end but had driven the more simple adherents, many of them women and children, towards suicide and the fateful trek into neighbouring Zaire.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	government	na	na	No evidence	more often women	x	Evidence against		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	group	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
768	zgarfield	Cultural model	Bemba	A Ciwa evil spirit is the extreme case, where, by suicide, the human gathers hostile forces of hatred and vengeance into death. These are then unharnessed with baleful intensity on earthly enemies (Labrecque n.d., 20). Instead of being removed from earth to a saving heaven, human spirits remain bound to earth, haunting cemeteries or abandoned villages Fibolya (Etienne 1948, 57). They may even be recycled to the living sphere: through the Kupyana succession, they are returned to their clan, or through the Kwinika ishina naming, they are reincarnated in the newly born (Shimwalule VII).	No evidence	x	adult	A Ciwa evil spirit is the extreme case, where, by suicide, the human gathers hostile forces of hatred and vengeance into death. These are then unharnessed with baleful intensity on earthly enemies	spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		unknown
768	syme	Cultural model	Bemba	A Ciwa evil spirit is the extreme case, where, by suicide, the human gathers hostile forces of hatred and vengeance into death. These are then unharnessed with baleful intensity on earthly enemies (Labrecque n.d., 20). Instead of being removed from earth to a saving heaven, human spirits remain bound to earth, haunting cemeteries or abandoned villages Fibolya (Etienne 1948, 57). They may even be recycled to the living sphere: through the Kupyana succession, they are returned to their clan, or through the Kwinika ishina naming, they are reincarnated in the newly born (Shimwalule VII).	No evidence	haunt living	unknown	 A Ciwa evil spirit is the extreme case, where, by suicide, the human gathers hostile forces of hatred and vengeance into death. These are then unharnessed with baleful intensity on earthly enemies (Labrecque n.d., 20). Instead of being removed from earth to a saving heaven, human spirits remain bound to earth, haunting cemeteries or abandoned villages Fibolya (Etienne 1948, 57). They may even be recycled to the living sphere: through the Kupyana succession, they are returned to their clan, or through the Kwinika ishina naming, they are reincarnated in the newly born (Shimwalule VII).	spirit attack	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 A Ciwa evil spirit is the extreme case, where, by suicide, the human gathers hostile forces of hatred and vengeance into death. These are then unharnessed with baleful intensity on earthly enemies (Labrecque n.d., 20). Instead of being removed from earth to a saving heaven, human spirits remain bound to earth, haunting cemeteries or abandoned villages Fibolya (Etienne 1948, 57).	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	 A Ciwa evil spirit is the extreme case, where, by suicide, the human gathers hostile forces of hatred and vengeance into death. These are then unharnessed with baleful intensity on earthly enemies (Labrecque n.d., 20). 	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	enemies	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	hatred 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
769	zgarfield	Cultural model	Bemba	Fiwa . Another important group of spirits are those to whom responsibility for serious, persistent troubles is attributed. These Fiwi ( Fibanda ) are spirits of malefactors--witches, suicides, murderers, et al.--who die with bitter grievances and return to haunt and inflict injuries on the living from whom they suffered injustices (Labrecque n.d., 20; Etienne 1948, passim; Kabwe IV).	No evidence	These Fiwi ( Fibanda ) are spirits of malefactors--witches, suicides, murderers, et al.--who die with bitter grievances and return to haunt and inflict injuries on the living from whom they suffered injustices 	adult	 Another important group of spirits are those to whom responsibility for serious, persistent troubles is attributed. These Fiwi ( Fibanda ) are spirits of malefactors--witches, suicides, murderers, et al.--who die with bitter grievances and return to haunt and inflict injuries on the living from whom they suffered injustices	spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	 Another important group of spirits are those to whom responsibility for serious, persistent troubles is attributed. These Fiwi ( Fibanda ) are spirits of malefactors--witches, suicides, murderers, et al.--who die with bitter grievances and return to haunt and inflict injuries on the living from whom they suffered injustices	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	These Fiwi ( Fibanda ) are spirits of malefactors--witches, suicides, murderers, et al.--who die with bitter grievances and return to haunt and inflict injuries on the living from whom they suffered injustices 	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
769	syme	Cultural model	Bemba	Fiwa . Another important group of spirits are those to whom responsibility for serious, persistent troubles is attributed. These Fiwi ( Fibanda ) are spirits of malefactors--witches, suicides, murderers, et al.--who die with bitter grievances and return to haunt and inflict injuries on the living from whom they suffered injustices (Labrecque n.d., 20; Etienne 1948, passim; Kabwe IV).	No evidence	haunt adversaries	unknown	 Fiwa . Another important group of spirits are those to whom responsibility for serious, persistent troubles is attributed. These Fiwi ( Fibanda ) are spirits of malefactors--witches, suicides, murderers, et al.--who die with bitter grievances and return to haunt and inflict injuries on the living from whom they suffered injustices (Labrecque n.d., 20; Etienne 1948, passim; Kabwe IV).	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 Fiwa . Another important group of spirits are those to whom responsibility for serious, persistent troubles is attributed. These Fiwi ( Fibanda ) are spirits of malefactors--witches, suicides, murderers, et al.--who die with bitter grievances and return to haunt and inflict injuries on the living from whom they suffered injustices (Labrecque n.d., 20; Etienne 1948, passim; Kabwe IV).	fearfully	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	 Fiwa . Another important group of spirits are those to whom responsibility for serious, persistent troubles is attributed. These Fiwi ( Fibanda ) are spirits of malefactors--witches, suicides, murderers, et al.--who die with bitter grievances and return to haunt and inflict injuries on the living from whom they suffered injustices (Labrecque n.d., 20; Etienne 1948, passim; Kabwe IV).	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	enemies	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown	enemies			no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	bitterness	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	 Fiwa . Another important group of spirits are those to whom responsibility for serious, persistent troubles is attributed. These Fiwi ( Fibanda ) are spirits of malefactors--witches, suicides, murderers, et al.--who die with bitter grievances and return to haunt and inflict injuries on the living from whom they suffered injustices (Labrecque n.d., 20; Etienne 1948, passim; Kabwe IV).	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
770	zgarfield	Cultural model	Dogon	Having to admit a fault in public; being exposed as a liar, a thief, or a witch; admitting that someone is not welcome; using the wrong term of address; not returning a greeting; or showing lack of respect for an elderall these mistakes and transgressions cause dg. This type of shame is unbearable for Dogon and may incite someone to suicide (often by jumping from a cliff); though not actually recommended, this action does meet with some approval.	Evidence for	x	unknown	aving to admit a fault in public; being exposed as a liar, a thief, or a witch; admitting that someone is not welcome; using the wrong term of address; not returning a greeting; or showing lack of respect for an elderall these mistakes and transgressions cause dg. This type of shame is unbearable for Dogon and may incite someone to suicide (often by jumping from a cliff)	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	aving to admit a fault in public; being exposed as a liar, a thief, or a witch; admitting that someone is not welcome; using the wrong term of address; not returning a greeting; or showing lack of respect for an elderall these mistakes and transgressions cause dg. This type of shame is unbearable for Dogon and may incite someone to suicide (often by jumping from a cliff)	approvingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	popular	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping	his type of shame is unbearable for Dogon and may incite someone to suicide 	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	shame	his type of shame is unbearable for Dogon and may incite someone to suicide 	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
770	syme	Cultural model	Dogon	Having to admit a fault in public; being exposed as a liar, a thief, or a witch; admitting that someone is not welcome; using the wrong term of address; not returning a greeting; or showing lack of respect for an elderall these mistakes and transgressions cause dg. This type of shame is unbearable for Dogon and may incite someone to suicide (often by jumping from a cliff); though not actually recommended, this action does meet with some approval.	No evidence	x	unknown	Having to admit a fault in public; being exposed as a liar, a thief, or a witch; admitting that someone is not welcome; using the wrong term of address; not returning a greeting; or showing lack of respect for an elderall these mistakes and transgressions cause dg. This type of shame is unbearable for Dogon and may incite someone to suicide (often by jumping from a cliff); though not actually recommended, this action does meet with some approval.	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na		x	approvingly,ambivalently	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	social group	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	shame	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence for	low	na
772	zgarfield	Case	Lozi	Chiefs and missionaries also confirmed that there had been a virtual breakdown of civil administration, and one missionary and one Chief, as well as several councillors and teachers, told me they had protested to District Commissioners. Reynolds' Magic, Divination and Witchcraft among the Barotse of Northern Rhodesia (1963), which if anything is biassed in favour of the actions taken, reports that of twenty-six suicides and one attempted suicide all but three are known to have acted through fear of being accused of, or arrested for witchcraft practices. The rest probably feared such arrest but, Page: 425 while available information points to this fact, the magistrate was not sufficiently sure to record it as the actual case. That the desire for escape from what must have appeared an impossible situation was very strong, is shown by the fact that seven of the intending suicides escaped from custody in order to kill themselves (p. 158).	Evidence for	x	adult	of twenty-six suicides and one attempted suicide all but three are known to have acted through fear of being accused of, or arrested for witchcraft practices. 	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	of twenty-six suicides and one attempted suicide all but three are known to have acted through fear of being accused of, or arrested for witchcraft practices. The rest probably feared such arrest but, Page: 425 while available information points to this fact, the magistrate was not sufficiently sure to record it as the actual case. That the desire for escape from what must have appeared an impossible situation was very strong, is shown by the fact that seven of the intending suicides escaped from custody in order to kill themselves	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	the desire for escape from what must have appeared an impossible situation was very strong	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	attempt,completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	fear of being accused of, or arrested for witchcraft practices.the desire for escape from what must have appeared an impossible situation was very strong	the desire for escape from what must have appeared an impossible situation was very strong	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
772	syme	Case	Lozi	Chiefs and missionaries also confirmed that there had been a virtual breakdown of civil administration, and one missionary and one Chief, as well as several councillors and teachers, told me they had protested to District Commissioners. Reynolds' Magic, Divination and Witchcraft among the Barotse of Northern Rhodesia (1963), which if anything is biassed in favour of the actions taken, reports that of twenty-six suicides and one attempted suicide all but three are known to have acted through fear of being accused of, or arrested for witchcraft practices. The rest probably feared such arrest but, Page: 425 while available information points to this fact, the magistrate was not sufficiently sure to record it as the actual case. That the desire for escape from what must have appeared an impossible situation was very strong, is shown by the fact that seven of the intending suicides escaped from custody in order to kill themselves (p. 158).	No evidence	x	unknown	...all but three are known to have acted through fear of being accused of, or arrested for witchcraft practices. The rest probably feared such arrest but, Page: 425 while available information points to this fact, the magistrate was not sufficiently sure to record it as the actual case. That the desire for escape from what must have appeared an impossible situation was very strong, is shown by the fact that seven of the intending suicides escaped from custody in order to kill themselves (p. 158).	accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	That the desire for escape from what must have appeared an impossible situation was very strong, is shown by the fact that seven of the intending suicides escaped from custody in order to kill themselves (p. 158).	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	police	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	Evidence against		no evidence	attempt,completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	witchcraft	unknown	fear	That the desire for escape from what must have appeared an impossible situation was very strong, is shown by the fact that seven of the intending suicides escaped from custody in order to kill themselves (p. 158).	x	x	not stated	26:1	x	x	x	Evidence for	na	unknown	Evidence for	low	documented_account
773	zgarfield	Cultural model	Maasai	A person who attempts suicide must, in some districts, pay a head of cattle to the one who prevented him from carrying out his intention.	No evidence	x	adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	A person who attempts suicide must, in some districts, pay a head of cattle to the one who prevented him from carrying out his intention	x	No evidence	public	na	No evidence		firsthand
773	syme	Cultural model	Maasai	A person who attempts suicide must, in some districts, pay a head of cattle to the one who prevented him from carrying out his intention.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	na	x	No evidence		no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	A person who attempts suicide must, in some districts, pay a head of cattle to the one who prevented him from carrying out his intention.	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
774	zgarfield	Cultural model	Maasai	This is also the quadrant of cowards and wastrels. Both are despised and unable to help themselves, but it is the wastrels who are more conspicuous and isolated. The stigma of cowardice matters less among elders, and it can even be overcome in moranhood. The wastrel is undependable and lacks the will to achieve. He is locked into his failure to adapt to the demands of Matapato society, and in their eyes hardly qualifies as a Maasai. As a boy or sometimes even as an elder, he has opted out and these days tends to drift to the towns. On rare occasions, some are even said to resort to suicide.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,elderly	"Both are despised and unable to help themselves, but it is the wastrels who are more conspicuous and isolated. The stigma of cowardice matters less among elders, and it can even be overcome in moranhood. The wastrel is undependable and lacks the will to achieve. He is locked into his failure to adapt to the demands of Matapato society, and in their eyes hardly qualifies as a Maasai. As a boy or sometimes even as an elder, he has opted out and these days tends to drift to the towns. On rare occasions, some are even said to resort to suicide.
"	interpersonal confli,loss social position	No evidence	na	No evidence	"Both are despised and unable to help themselves, but it is the wastrels who are more conspicuous and isolated. The stigma of cowardice matters less among elders, and it can even be overcome in moranhood. The wastrel is undependable and lacks the will to achieve. He is locked into his failure to adapt to the demands of Matapato society, and in their eyes hardly qualifies as a Maasai. As a boy or sometimes even as an elder, he has opted out and these days tends to drift to the towns. On rare occasions, some are even said to resort to suicide.
"	na	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	lacks the will to achieve	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	Evidence for		firsthand
774	syme	Cultural model	Maasai	This is also the quadrant of cowards and wastrels. Both are despised and unable to help themselves, but it is the wastrels who are more conspicuous and isolated. The stigma of cowardice matters less among elders, and it can even be overcome in moranhood. The wastrel is undependable and lacks the will to achieve. He is locked into his failure to adapt to the demands of Matapato society, and in their eyes hardly qualifies as a Maasai. As a boy or sometimes even as an elder, he has opted out and these days tends to drift to the towns. On rare occasions, some are even said to resort to suicide.	No evidence	x	young adult	This is also the quadrant of cowards and wastrels. Both are despised and unable to help themselves, but it is the wastrels who are more conspicuous and isolated. The stigma of cowardice matters less among elders, and it can even be overcome in moranhood. The wastrel is undependable and lacks the will to achieve. He is locked into his failure to adapt to the demands of Matapato society, and in their eyes hardly qualifies as a Maasai. As a boy or sometimes even as an elder, he has opted out and these days tends to drift to the towns. On rare occasions, some are even said to resort to suicide.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	unknown	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	social group	na		Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	He is locked into his failure to adapt to the demands of Matapato society	x	x	na	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	na	Evidence for	low	na
775	zgarfield	Case	Tiv	On being arrested, Arayi gave away Agbwega who was also arrested; they both confessed to me that they had killed and eaten the flesh of Saama for the imborivungu rites. I sent Agbwega under escort to his house to bring the regalia. He asked to be allowed to go into his private quarters alone, but as he did not reappear, he was followed and it was found that he had stabbed himself with a spear. He died shortly afterwards. Meanwhile, the case assumed a new and startling aspect, when I received the following letter from the District Officer, Wukari, Captain Emberton I have now seen Saamas corpse and have no doubt whatever that it has NOT been tampered with at all. None of the limbs has been severed and the flesh shows only the signs of normal decomposition. I showed it to all the witnesses who told the previous story to us and they agree that all the flesh is there complete, but persist that the mba tsav have the power of reconstructing the body. Arayi now says that he did not eat the flesh and had no dealings with Agbwega whatever. He was, he says, beaten and made to say that he was responsible for Saamas death by the District Head. Personally, I think he probably was trying become an initiate. . . I think that Saama died a natural death but as Arayi was known to have had a difference with him, he was accused of being concerned in it. Agbwegas suicide is said to be due to fear instilled into him by the District Head and by the fact that his son had turned against him and given evidence against him. Dauda, son of Agbwega, now says that he did not actually see the flesh brought home by his father and Arayi, but only thought it was flesh. All the people I saw were agreed that Agbwega would be quite likely to commit suicide, as his son Dauda had perjured himself to get his father into trouble. As I have mentioned before, Arayi was persuaded, foolishly (in my opinion), to confess and he consequently concocted the whole story.	No evidence	x	adult	On being arrested, Arayi gave away Agbwega who was also arrested; they both confessed to me that they had killed and eaten the flesh of Saama for the imborivungu rites. I sent Agbwega under escort to his house to bring the regalia. He asked to be allowed to go into his private quarters alone, but as he did not reappear, he was followed and it was found that he had stabbed himself with a spear. 	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	On being arrested, Arayi gave away Agbwega who was also arrested; they both confessed to me that they had killed and eaten the flesh of Saama for the imborivungu rites. I sent Agbwega under escort to his house to bring the regalia. He asked to be allowed to go into his private quarters alone, but as he did not reappear, he was followed and it was found that he had stabbed himself with a spear. 	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	stabbing	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	physical abuse	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	na	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
775	syme	Case	Tiv	On being arrested, Arayi gave away Agbwega who was also arrested; they both confessed to me that they had killed and eaten the flesh of Saama for the imborivungu rites. I sent Agbwega under escort to his house to bring the regalia. He asked to be allowed to go into his private quarters alone, but as he did not reappear, he was followed and it was found that he had stabbed himself with a spear. He died shortly afterwards. Meanwhile, the case assumed a new and startling aspect, when I received the following letter from the District Officer, Wukari, Captain Emberton I have now seen Saamas corpse and have no doubt whatever that it has NOT been tampered with at all. None of the limbs has been severed and the flesh shows only the signs of normal decomposition. I showed it to all the witnesses who told the previous story to us and they agree that all the flesh is there complete, but persist that the mba tsav have the power of reconstructing the body. Arayi now says that he did not eat the flesh and had no dealings with Agbwega whatever. He was, he says, beaten and made to say that he was responsible for Saamas death by the District Head. Personally, I think he probably was trying become an initiate. . . I think that Saama died a natural death but as Arayi was known to have had a difference with him, he was accused of being concerned in it. Agbwegas suicide is said to be due to fear instilled into him by the District Head and by the fact that his son had turned against him and given evidence against him. Dauda, son of Agbwega, now says that he did not actually see the flesh brought home by his father and Arayi, but only thought it was flesh. All the people I saw were agreed that Agbwega would be quite likely to commit suicide, as his son Dauda had perjured himself to get his father into trouble. As I have mentioned before, Arayi was persuaded, foolishly (in my opinion), to confess and he consequently concocted the whole story.	No evidence	x	adult,elderly,unknown	On being arrested, Arayi gave away Agbwega who was also arrested; they both confessed to me that they had killed and eaten the flesh of Saama for the imborivungu rites. I sent Agbwega under escort to his house to bring the regalia. He asked to be allowed to go into his private quarters alone, but as he did not reappear, he was followed and it was found that he had stabbed himself with a spear. He died shortly afterwards...All the people I saw were agreed that Agbwega would be quite likely to commit suicide, as his son Dauda had perjured himself to get his father into trouble. As I have mentioned before, Arayi was persuaded, foolishly (in my opinion), to confess and he consequently concocted the whole story.	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	On being arrested, Arayi gave away Agbwega who was also arrested; they both confessed to me that they had killed and eaten the flesh of Saama for the imborivungu rites. I sent Agbwega under escort to his house to bring the regalia. He asked to be allowed to go into his private quarters alone, but as he did not reappear, he was followed and it was found that he had stabbed himself with a spear. He died shortly afterwards...All the people I saw were agreed that Agbwega would be quite likely to commit suicide, as his son Dauda had perjured himself to get his father into trouble. As I have mentioned before, Arayi was persuaded, foolishly (in my opinion), to confess and he consequently concocted the whole story.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	stabbing	Agbwegas suicide is said to be due to fear instilled into him by the District Head and by the fact that his son had turned against him and given evidence against him. 	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	ado_young_adult,adult,unknown	son	male	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x	x	unknown	fear	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	private	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	documented_account
776	zgarfield	Cultural model	Wolof	(25) On nous a cit, dans des villages, des cas de jeunes filles qui ont t se plaindre la police ou au tribunal contre leurs parents, qui voulaient leur imposer un mari, et qui ont menac de se suicider.	No evidence	x	young adult	Some have told us cases about young girls who complained to the police or to a tribunal against their parents who wanted to force them to marry a husband, and they threatened to commit suicide. This is discussed in the context of changing from arranged marriage to marriage by choice.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Some have told us cases about young girls who complained to the police or to a tribunal against their parents who wanted to force them to marry a husband, and they threatened to commit suicide. This is discussed in the context of changing from arranged marriage to marriage by choice.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	Some have told us cases about young girls who complained to the police or to a tribunal against their parents who wanted to force them to marry a husband, and they threatened to commit suicide. This is discussed in the context of changing from arranged marriage to marriage by choice.	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	na	unknown	No evidence		secondhand
776	syme	Cultural model	Wolof	(25) On nous a cit, dans des villages, des cas de jeunes filles qui ont t se plaindre la police ou au tribunal contre leurs parents, qui voulaient leur imposer un mari, et qui ont menac de se suicider.	No evidence	x	young adult	Some have told us cases about young girls who complained to the police or to a tribunal against their parents who wanted to force them to marry a husband, and they threatened to commit suicide. 	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Some have told us cases about young girls who complained to the police or to a tribunal against their parents who wanted to force them to marry a husband, and they threatened to commit suicide. 	unknown	unknown	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	unknown	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	na	Some have told us cases about young girls who complained to the police or to a tribunal against their parents who wanted to force them to marry a husband, and they threatened to commit suicide. 	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
777	zgarfield	Cultural model	Wolof	Suicide is rare, and it is believed that the soul of a suicide goes straight to hell.	No evidence	Suicide is rare, and it is believed that the soul of a suicide goes straight to hell.	na	x	na	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
777	syme	Cultural model	Wolof	Suicide is rare, and it is believed that the soul of a suicide goes straight to hell.	No evidence	negative	unknown	z	na	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly,unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	na	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
786	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chukchee	In cases of voluntary death, the self-doomed man often declares his last wish to be to taste alien food. In the next world, he argues, there will be no place for other tribes, so this will be his last chance to taste foreign foods.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	ask_someone_else	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	In cases of voluntary death, the self-doomed man often declares his last wish to be to taste alien food.		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
786	syme	Cultural model	Chukchee	In cases of voluntary death, the self-doomed man often declares his last wish to be to taste alien food. In the next world, he argues, there will be no place for other tribes, so this will be his last chance to taste foreign foods.	No evidence	neutral	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
787	zgarfield	Case	Chukchee	The shaman Ye'tIlIn, before mentioned, had an incessant nervous twitching in his face, and the Chukchee said laughingly that he was probably with an owl Ke'lE [JMR: evil spirit] ..., comparing his affliction to the jerking motion of the owl's head when it devours its prey. Another shaman, by name KI'mIqi, whom I met on the Large Anui, and who belonged to a family of suicides, suffered from the same cause....	No evidence	x	adult	x	na	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	unknown	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		unknown	x	x	he shaman Ye'tIlIn, before mentioned, had an incessant nervous twitching in his face, and the Chukchee said laughingly that he was probably with an owl Ke'lE [JMR: evil spirit] ..., comparing his affliction to the jerking motion of the owl's head when it devours its prey. Another shaman, by name KI'mIqi, whom I met on the Large Anui, and who belonged to a family of suicides, suffered from the same cause....	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		firsthand
787	syme	Case	Chukchee	The shaman Ye'tIlIn, before mentioned, had an incessant nervous twitching in his face, and the Chukchee said laughingly that he was probably with an owl Ke'lE [JMR: evil spirit] ..., comparing his affliction to the jerking motion of the owl's head when it devours its prey. Another shaman, by name KI'mIqi, whom I met on the Large Anui, and who belonged to a family of suicides, suffered from the same cause....	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	 The shaman Ye'tIlIn, before mentioned, had an incessant nervous twitching in his face, and the Chukchee said laughingly that he was probably with an owl Ke'lE [JMR: evil spirit] ..., comparing his affliction to the jerking motion of the owl's head when it devours its prey. Another shaman, by name KI'mIqi, whom I met on the Large Anui, and who belonged to a family of suicides, suffered from the same cause....	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	unknown	No evidence	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	chronic	unknown	x	2	x	x		unknown	x	x	 The shaman Ye'tIlIn, before mentioned, had an incessant nervous twitching in his face, and the Chukchee said laughingly that he was probably with an owl Ke'lE [JMR: evil spirit] ..., comparing his affliction to the jerking motion of the owl's head when it devours its prey. Another shaman, by name KI'mIqi, whom I met on the Large Anui, and who belonged to a family of suicides, suffered from the same cause....	x	not stated	1	x	x	 The shaman Ye'tIlIn, before mentioned, had an incessant nervous twitching in his face, and the Chukchee said laughingly that he was probably with an owl Ke'lE [JMR: evil spirit] ..., comparing his affliction to the jerking motion of the owl's head when it devours its prey. Another shaman, by name KI'mIqi, whom I met on the Large Anui, and who belonged to a family of suicides, suffered from the same cause....	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	high	unknown
788	zgarfield	Case	Chukchee	The story deals with a case of actual suicide which happened on the western tundra of the Kolyma in the nineties of the last century. Relative to bringing back the dead, it says,	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	na	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	na	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		documented_account
788	syme	Case	Chukchee	The story deals with a case of actual suicide which happened on the western tundra of the Kolyma in the nineties of the last century. Relative to bringing back the dead, it says,	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	0	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
807	zgarfield	Case	Chukchee	In two cases mentioned before, the hand of the son who had to kill his father was unsteady, and the wound he inflicted was not immediately mortal. The dispute between the man wishing to die a voluntary death and his house-mates is well represented in the tale of Ai'gInto.	No evidence	x	adult	The dispute between the man wishing to die a voluntary death and his house-mates is well represented in the tale of Ai'gInto.	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	The dispute between the man wishing to die a voluntary death and his house-mates is well represented in the tale of Ai'gInto.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		firsthand
807	syme	Case	Chukchee	In two cases mentioned before, the hand of the son who had to kill his father was unsteady, and the wound he inflicted was not immediately mortal. The dispute between the man wishing to die a voluntary death and his house-mates is well represented in the tale of Ai'gInto.	Evidence for	x	adult,elderly,unknown	 In two cases mentioned before, the hand of the son who had to kill his father was unsteady, and the wound he inflicted was not immediately mortal. The dispute between the man wishing to die a voluntary death and his house-mates is well represented in the tale of Ai'gInto.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 In two cases mentioned before, the hand of the son who had to kill his father was unsteady, and the wound he inflicted was not immediately mortal. The dispute between the man wishing to die a voluntary death and his house-mates is well represented in the tale of Ai'gInto.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	ask_someone_else,bleed_to_death	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	ado_young_adult,adult	son	male	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	high suicide rate	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	Evidence for	average,unknown	unknown
810	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chukchee	Three methods of voluntary death are known to the Chukchee, -- death by stabbing with a knife or spear, death by strangulation, and death by shooting. The last method is used much less frequently than the others. The bow is never used, only the rifle. It seems, therefore, that this method has come into use quite recently. The reason for using the rifle is that death is more sudden and less painful. The people who kill the person desiring to die are called assistants or followers, like those in the funeral ceremony....When death is inflicted by stabbing, the mortal stroke must be given by men. Women are not allowed to take part in the execution. The knife of the person being killed has to be used. Then the death-stroke is less painful. After death the wound has to be sewed up with thread. The knife is carried to the funeral place and left there. A death stroke dealt by the hand of a son is not painful, that given by the hand of a complete stranger is extremely painful. Therefore, when in a strange camp, while on a journey or at a fair, voluntary death is executed by other means than stabbing. When the person is stabbed with a spear, his face is usually covered with a piece of skin or with a shawl. Often he takes his position in the inner room, close to the entrance. The executioner stands in the outer room, holding his spear forward, and the man who desires to be killed takes the spear-head with both his hands and points it against his heart. Then he gives a signal for the death-stroke. Both in stabbing with the knife and with the spear, and also in shooting with the rifle, the blow is given from the front, never from behind.	No evidence	x	adult	x	na	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	shooting,strangling,stabbing	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	yes	No evidence		firsthand
810	syme	Cultural model	Chukchee	Three methods of voluntary death are known to the Chukchee, -- death by stabbing with a knife or spear, death by strangulation, and death by shooting. The last method is used much less frequently than the others. The bow is never used, only the rifle. It seems, therefore, that this method has come into use quite recently. The reason for using the rifle is that death is more sudden and less painful. The people who kill the person desiring to die are called assistants or followers, like those in the funeral ceremony....When death is inflicted by stabbing, the mortal stroke must be given by men. Women are not allowed to take part in the execution. The knife of the person being killed has to be used. Then the death-stroke is less painful. After death the wound has to be sewed up with thread. The knife is carried to the funeral place and left there. A death stroke dealt by the hand of a son is not painful, that given by the hand of a complete stranger is extremely painful. Therefore, when in a strange camp, while on a journey or at a fair, voluntary death is executed by other means than stabbing. When the person is stabbed with a spear, his face is usually covered with a piece of skin or with a shawl. Often he takes his position in the inner room, close to the entrance. The executioner stands in the outer room, holding his spear forward, and the man who desires to be killed takes the spear-head with both his hands and points it against his heart. Then he gives a signal for the death-stroke. Both in stabbing with the knife and with the spear, and also in shooting with the rifle, the blow is given from the front, never from behind.	Evidence for	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	shooting,ask_someone_else,strangling,stabbing	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	son,stranger	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	high homicide rate	unknown	x	x	x	After death the wound has to be sewed up with thread. The knife is carried to the funeral place and left there... Both in stabbing with the knife and with the spear, and also in shooting with the rifle, the blow is given from the front, never from behind.	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence	average,unknown	na
811	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chukchee	While only men are allowed to execute the wish of a person who desires to die a bloody death, Page: 564-565 women may also assist in killing persons by strangling. The wife of the man who is to die holds his head on her knees wrapped in a shawl, while two men pull from both sides at a rope put around his neck. If the man struggles too much, the woman smoothes his hands (i.e., keeps them down with both her hands), or, if her strength is not sufficient, another woman aids her. In one or two cases I listened to a description of strangling from the lips of women who had held the heads of their dying husbands on their knees. They spoke of it with much composure, and related how the strangled man kicked with hands and feet, and how they kept him quiet. After the desire to die [JMR: voluntarily] is proclaimed aloud, the execution must be done speedily,--if possible, on the same day or the next one,--for the ke'let [JMR: harmful spirits] hover about after the promise has been made, and if they have to wait too long, they may lose patience and take some other person. Previous to his last hours, the person is treated with fat meat and alien food, and all his wishes are fulfilled. The people avoid annoying him; even though he chides 565 them, they must keep silent. Here it should be remembered that some cases of voluntary death originate in wrath....	Evidence for	x	adult	While only men are allowed to execute the wish of a person who desires to die a bloody death, Page: 564-565 women may also assist in killing persons by strangling. 	spirit attack,unknown	No evidence	na	Evidence for	After the desire to die [JMR: voluntarily] is proclaimed aloud, the execution must be done speedily,--if possible, on the same day or the next one,--for the ke'let [JMR: harmful spirits] hover about after the promise has been made, and if they have to wait too long, they may lose patience and take some other person	approvingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	ask_someone_else	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	both		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	Previous to his last hours, the person is treated with fat meat and alien food, and all his wishes are fulfilled. 		x	x		na	The people avoid annoying him; even though he chides 565 them, they must keep silent. Here it should be remembered that some cases of voluntary death originate in wrath....	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	public	yes	No evidence		firsthand
811	syme	Cultural model	Chukchee	While only men are allowed to execute the wish of a person who desires to die a bloody death, Page: 564-565 women may also assist in killing persons by strangling. The wife of the man who is to die holds his head on her knees wrapped in a shawl, while two men pull from both sides at a rope put around his neck. If the man struggles too much, the woman smoothes his hands (i.e., keeps them down with both her hands), or, if her strength is not sufficient, another woman aids her. In one or two cases I listened to a description of strangling from the lips of women who had held the heads of their dying husbands on their knees. They spoke of it with much composure, and related how the strangled man kicked with hands and feet, and how they kept him quiet. After the desire to die [JMR: voluntarily] is proclaimed aloud, the execution must be done speedily,--if possible, on the same day or the next one,--for the ke'let [JMR: harmful spirits] hover about after the promise has been made, and if they have to wait too long, they may lose patience and take some other person. Previous to his last hours, the person is treated with fat meat and alien food, and all his wishes are fulfilled. The people avoid annoying him; even though he chides 565 them, they must keep silent. Here it should be remembered that some cases of voluntary death originate in wrath....	Evidence for	x	adult,unknown	x	na	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	ask_someone_else,strangling	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	high suicide rate	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence	average,unknown	na
817	zgarfield	Case	Chukchee	On the other hand, cases occur where the husband is willing, but the proposed friend is distasteful to the wife. Sometimes the husband beats his wife into submission. Frequently, however, the wife stands for her right to select friends. I was told about one woman, who, being pressed by her husband to live with a friend whom she disliked, preferred to take her own life.	No evidence	x	adult	 I was told about one woman, who, being pressed by her husband to live with a friend whom she disliked, preferred to take her own life.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 I was told about one woman, who, being pressed by her husband to live with a friend whom she disliked, preferred to take her own life.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	 I was told about one woman, who, being pressed by her husband to live with a friend whom she disliked, preferred to take her own life.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	male	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence		secondhand
817	syme	Case	Chukchee	On the other hand, cases occur where the husband is willing, but the proposed friend is distasteful to the wife. Sometimes the husband beats his wife into submission. Frequently, however, the wife stands for her right to select friends. I was told about one woman, who, being pressed by her husband to live with a friend whom she disliked, preferred to take her own life.	Evidence for	x	young adult,adult,unknown	On the other hand, cases occur where the husband is willing, but the proposed friend is distasteful to the wife. Sometimes the husband beats his wife into submission. Frequently, however, the wife stands for her right to select friends. I was told about one woman, who, being pressed by her husband to live with a friend whom she disliked, preferred to take her own life.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	On the other hand, cases occur where the husband is willing, but the proposed friend is distasteful to the wife. Sometimes the husband beats his wife into submission. Frequently, however, the wife stands for her right to select friends. I was told about one woman, who, being pressed by her husband to live with a friend whom she disliked, preferred to take her own life.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	ado_young_adult,adult,unknown	husband	male	na	No evidence	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	polyandrogyny	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	average,unknown	unknown
818	zgarfield	Case	Chukchee	In this case a man taken from the family of the offender had to be adopted by the family of the victim, and in every way took his place. I know of another case of similar character. Pe'qul, a man of Maritime origin, had a cousin who was an assistant herdsman in a large tundra herd on the Wolverene River. After a couple of years, the young herdsman was killed in a scuffle. Pe'qul came to the Wolverene River to seek for indemnity and revenge. He took from the family of the murderer a number of reindeer by way of ransom ...; then he also took a young boy, the son of the sister of the murderer and carried him to his own house. The boy was treated very harshly, so that he Page: 660-661 even tried to commit suicide. The he was released in exchange for a new payment in live reindeer. Pe'qul also threatened to take a certain young woman from the same family. The woman also declared that she would rather destroy her own life.	Evidence for	x	child	He took from the family of the murderer a number of reindeer by way of ransom ...; then he also took a young boy, the son of the sister of the murderer and carried him to his own house. The boy was treated very harshly, so that he Page: 660-661 even tried to commit suicide.	interpersonal confli	Evidence for	physical abuse	Evidence for	He took from the family of the murderer a number of reindeer by way of ransom ...; then he also took a young boy, the son of the sister of the murderer and carried him to his own house. The boy was treated very harshly, so that he Page: 660-661 even tried to commit suicide.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	captors	male	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	physical abuse	attempt	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	he boy was treated very harshly, so that he Page: 660-661 even tried to commit suicide. The he was released in exchange for a new payment in live reindeer	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
818	syme	Case	Chukchee	In this case a man taken from the family of the offender had to be adopted by the family of the victim, and in every way took his place. I know of another case of similar character. Pe'qul, a man of Maritime origin, had a cousin who was an assistant herdsman in a large tundra herd on the Wolverene River. After a couple of years, the young herdsman was killed in a scuffle. Pe'qul came to the Wolverene River to seek for indemnity and revenge. He took from the family of the murderer a number of reindeer by way of ransom ...; then he also took a young boy, the son of the sister of the murderer and carried him to his own house. The boy was treated very harshly, so that he Page: 660-661 even tried to commit suicide. The he was released in exchange for a new payment in live reindeer. Pe'qul also threatened to take a certain young woman from the same family. The woman also declared that she would rather destroy her own life.	No evidence	x	child	   In this case a man taken from the family of the offender had to be adopted by the family of the victim, and in every way took his place. I know of another case of similar character. Pe'qul, a man of Maritime origin, had a cousin who was an assistant herdsman in a large tundra herd on the Wolverene River. After a couple of years, the young herdsman was killed in a scuffle. Pe'qul came to the Wolverene River to seek for indemnity and revenge. He took from the family of the murderer a number of reindeer by way of ransom ...; then he also took a young boy, the son of the sister of the murderer and carried him to his own house. The boy was treated very harshly, so that he Page: 660-661 even tried to commit suicide. The he was released in exchange for a new payment in live reindeer. Pe'qul also threatened to take a certain young woman from the same family. The woman also declared that she would rather destroy her own life.	group_conflict,enslavement_capture,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	   In this case a man taken from the family of the offender had to be adopted by the family of the victim, and in every way took his place. I know of another case of similar character. Pe'qul, a man of Maritime origin, had a cousin who was an assistant herdsman in a large tundra herd on the Wolverene River. After a couple of years, the young herdsman was killed in a scuffle. Pe'qul came to the Wolverene River to seek for indemnity and revenge. He took from the family of the murderer a number of reindeer by way of ransom ...; then he also took a young boy, the son of the sister of the murderer and carried him to his own house. The boy was treated very harshly, so that he Page: 660-661 even tried to commit suicide. The he was released in exchange for a new payment in live reindeer. Pe'qul also threatened to take a certain young woman from the same family. The woman also declared that she would rather destroy her own life.	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	captors	both	na	No evidence	male	x	Evidence against		unknown	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	  The he was released in exchange for a new payment in live reindeer.	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence for	average,unknown	unknown
819	zgarfield	Cultural model	Garo	According to Garo belief, there are some souls which can never enter Chikmang. These are the souls of people whose deaths occurred in unnatural ways, like being killed by a wild animal, through some other kind of accident, or by suicide.	No evidence	According to Garo belief, there are some souls which can never enter Chikmang. These are the souls of people whose deaths occurred in unnatural ways, like being killed by a wild animal, through some other kind of accident, or by suicide.	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na		No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	na	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		unknown
819	syme	Cultural model	Garo	According to Garo belief, there are some souls which can never enter Chikmang. These are the souls of people whose deaths occurred in unnatural ways, like being killed by a wild animal, through some other kind of accident, or by suicide.	No evidence	negative	unknown	x	na	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly,unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
820	zgarfield	Cultural model	Iban	In Iban eschatology, those who die unfortunate, or bad, deaths--for example, the victims of drowning, suicide, fatal accidents, and other premature and unnatural ends--are said to be excluded from the Afterworld proper, and remain instead in limbo, in separate areas of their own, where they keep company with all those who have met a similar fate as themselves.	No evidence	In Iban eschatology, those who die unfortunate, or bad, deaths--for example, the victims of drowning, suicide, fatal accidents, and other premature and unnatural ends--are said to be excluded from the Afterworld proper, and remain instead in limbo, in separate areas of their own, where they keep company with all those who have met a similar fate as themselves.	na	x	na	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	na		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		na
820	syme	Cultural model	Iban	In Iban eschatology, those who die unfortunate, or bad, deaths--for example, the victims of drowning, suicide, fatal accidents, and other premature and unnatural ends--are said to be excluded from the Afterworld proper, and remain instead in limbo, in separate areas of their own, where they keep company with all those who have met a similar fate as themselves.	No evidence	negative	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly,unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
821	zgarfield	Case	Korea	Numbers of the wounded crept into the deserted houses and died there, some of the bodies showing indications of suicide from agony, and throughout this mass of human relics which lay blackening and festering in the hot sun, dogs, left behind by their owners, were holding high carnival.	Evidence for	x	adult	Numbers of the wounded crept into the deserted houses and died there, some of the bodies showing indications of suicide from agony	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	war,unknown	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		unknown	suicide from agony	Numbers of the wounded crept into the deserted houses and died there, some of the bodies showing indications of suicide from agony	x	x	not stated	?	x	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
821	syme	Case	Korea	Numbers of the wounded crept into the deserted houses and died there, some of the bodies showing indications of suicide from agony, and throughout this mass of human relics which lay blackening and festering in the hot sun, dogs, left behind by their owners, were holding high carnival.	Evidence for	x	young adult,adult,unknown	Numbers of the wounded crept into the deserted houses and died there, some of the bodies showing indications of suicide from agony,	other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Numbers of the wounded crept into the deserted houses and died there, some of the bodies showing indications of suicide from agony,	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	suicide from agony,	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	outgroup	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence against		war,combat,witness violence,perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	severe	other	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	unknown	x	x	Numbers of the wounded crept into the deserted houses and died there, some of the bodies showing indications of suicide from agony,	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
822	zgarfield	Cultural model	Korea	Daughters have been put to death by their fathers, wives by their husbands, and women have even committed suicide, according to Dallet, when strange men, whether by accident or design, have even touched their hands...	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,unknown	Daughters have been put to death by their fathers, wives by their husbands, and women have even committed suicide, according to Dallet, when strange men, whether by accident or design, have even touched their hands...	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Daughters have been put to death by their fathers, wives by their husbands, and women have even committed suicide, according to Dallet, when strange men, whether by accident or design, have even touched their hands...	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	kin	male	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	Daughters have been put to death by their fathers, wives by their husbands, and women have even committed suicide, according to Dallet, when strange men, whether by accident or design, have even touched their hands...		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		unknown
822	syme	Cultural model	Korea	Daughters have been put to death by their fathers, wives by their husbands, and women have even committed suicide, according to Dallet, when strange men, whether by accident or design, have even touched their hands...	No evidence	x	young adult,adult	Daughters have been put to death by their fathers, wives by their husbands, and women have even committed suicide, according to Dallet, when strange men, whether by accident or design, have even touched their hands...	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	na
823	zgarfield	Case	Korea	The Korean Emperor and ministers at first refused to sign the new treaty, but when Japanese soldiers were placed around the palace with machine guns, and when the Korean Prime Minister Han Kew-sul was dragged out of the conference hall by Japanese officers, 32 Chung, op. cit., p. 55. the ministers signed the treaty. Several high officials, including Min Young-whan, former Minister of War, committed suicide.	Evidence for	x	adult	The Korean Emperor and ministers at first refused to sign the new treaty, but when Japanese soldiers were placed around the palace with machine guns, and when the Korean Prime Minister Han Kew-sul was dragged out of the conference hall by Japanese officers, 32 Chung, op. cit., p. 55. the ministers signed the treaty. Several high officials, including Min Young-whan, former Minister of War, committed suicide.	military defeat	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The Korean Emperor and ministers at first refused to sign the new treaty, but when Japanese soldiers were placed around the palace with machine guns, and when the Korean Prime Minister Han Kew-sul was dragged out of the conference hall by Japanese officers, 32 Chung, op. cit., p. 55. the ministers signed the treaty. Several high officials, including Min Young-whan, former Minister of War, committed suicide.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	political power	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	several	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	yes	No evidence		firsthand
823	syme	Case	Korea	The Korean Emperor and ministers at first refused to sign the new treaty, but when Japanese soldiers were placed around the palace with machine guns, and when the Korean Prime Minister Han Kew-sul was dragged out of the conference hall by Japanese officers, 32 Chung, op. cit., p. 55. the ministers signed the treaty. Several high officials, including Min Young-whan, former Minister of War, committed suicide.	No evidence	x	adult,elderly,unknown	The Korean Emperor and ministers at first refused to sign the new treaty, but when Japanese soldiers were placed around the palace with machine guns, and when the Korean Prime Minister Han Kew-sul was dragged out of the conference hall by Japanese officers, 32 Chung, op. cit., p. 55. the ministers signed the treaty. Several high officials, including Min Young-whan, former Minister of War, committed suicide.	military defeat,loss social position	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The Korean Emperor and ministers at first refused to sign the new treaty, but when Japanese soldiers were placed around the palace with machine guns, and when the Korean Prime Minister Han Kew-sul was dragged out of the conference hall by Japanese officers, 32 Chung, op. cit., p. 55. the ministers signed the treaty. Several high officials, including Min Young-whan, former Minister of War, committed suicide.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	outgroup	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence against		war	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	na	unknown	No evidence	low	unknown
824	zgarfield	Cultural model	Korea	The remarriage of widows is culturally unacceptable in Korean tradition. Among the common people, however, it becomes a practical necessity in most cases for a widow to take a second husband, and after a more or less lengthy wait she has apparently remarried when possible. For the upper-class woman this was not so and she was expected to spend the remainder of her life in mourning a man for whom, as likely as not, she had had little personal regard. This proved difficult either for reasons of temperament or because of the advances of men from whom she was not able to protect herself. Ideally, if she committed suicide to preserve her reputation, she was greatly admired but it must be presumed that the majority of widows found satisfaction in other ways, such as becoming the mistresses of men of their choice.	No evidence	x	adult	For the upper-class woman this was not so and she was expected to spend the remainder of her life in mourning a man for whom, as likely as not, she had had little personal regard. This proved difficult either for reasons of temperament or because of the advances of men from whom she was not able to protect herself. Ideally, if she committed suicide to preserve her reputation, she was greatly admired but it must be presumed that the majority of widows found satisfaction in other ways, such as becoming the mistresses of men of their choice.	interpersonal confli,death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	For the upper-class woman this was not so and she was expected to spend the remainder of her life in mourning a man for whom, as likely as not, she had had little personal regard. This proved difficult either for reasons of temperament or because of the advances of men from whom she was not able to protect herself. Ideally, if she committed suicide to preserve her reputation, she was greatly admired but it must be presumed that the majority of widows found satisfaction in other ways, such as becoming the mistresses of men of their choice.	approvingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na		na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	death of a loved one	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		secondhand
824	syme	Cultural model	Korea	The remarriage of widows is culturally unacceptable in Korean tradition. Among the common people, however, it becomes a practical necessity in most cases for a widow to take a second husband, and after a more or less lengthy wait she has apparently remarried when possible. For the upper-class woman this was not so and she was expected to spend the remainder of her life in mourning a man for whom, as likely as not, she had had little personal regard. This proved difficult either for reasons of temperament or because of the advances of men from whom she was not able to protect herself. Ideally, if she committed suicide to preserve her reputation, she was greatly admired but it must be presumed that the majority of widows found satisfaction in other ways, such as becoming the mistresses of men of their choice.	No evidence	x	unknown	The remarriage of widows is culturally unacceptable in Korean tradition. Among the common people, however, it becomes a practical necessity in most cases for a widow to take a second husband, and after a more or less lengthy wait she has apparently remarried when possible. For the upper-class woman this was not so and she was expected to spend the remainder of her life in mourning a man for whom, as likely as not, she had had little personal regard. This proved difficult either for reasons of temperament or because of the advances of men from whom she was not able to protect herself. Ideally, if she committed suicide to preserve her reputation, she was greatly admired but it must be presumed that the majority of widows found satisfaction in other ways, such as becoming the mistresses of men of their choice.	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	female	husband	No evidence			completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	yes	No evidence	high	na
825	zgarfield	Cultural model	Korea	Lesser than the mother-in-law, but the next stern figure for the new bride is the sister-in-law. The new wife must use honorific language toward the sisters and brothers of the husband even though they are younger than she. The elder sister-in-law may be absent, because she is already married-out. But the younger sister-in-law always stands by the side of the mother-in-law, to whom she reports every possible weakness and bad news of the new bride. The nearer the ages of the new bride and her sister-in-law, the worse their relationship. Many tragedies in Korea deal with this antagonism of the three women and many folk songs describe the miserable situation of the suffering new bride. In earlier times the severity of the women sometimes caused new brides to commit suicide.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult	The nearer the ages of the new bride and her sister-in-law, the worse their relationship. Many tragedies in Korea deal with this antagonism of the three women and many folk songs describe the miserable situation of the suffering new bride. In earlier times the severity of the women sometimes caused new brides to commit suicide.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	he new wife must use honorific language toward the sisters and brothers of the husband even though they are younger than she. The elder sister-in-law may be absent, because she is already married-out. But the younger sister-in-law always stands by the side of the mother-in-law, to whom she reports every possible weakness and bad news of the new bride.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	ado_young_adult,adult	kin	female	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	other	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	miserable situation of the suffering new bride	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	na	no	Evidence against		documented_account
825	syme	Cultural model	Korea	Lesser than the mother-in-law, but the next stern figure for the new bride is the sister-in-law. The new wife must use honorific language toward the sisters and brothers of the husband even though they are younger than she. The elder sister-in-law may be absent, because she is already married-out. But the younger sister-in-law always stands by the side of the mother-in-law, to whom she reports every possible weakness and bad news of the new bride. The nearer the ages of the new bride and her sister-in-law, the worse their relationship. Many tragedies in Korea deal with this antagonism of the three women and many folk songs describe the miserable situation of the suffering new bride. In earlier times the severity of the women sometimes caused new brides to commit suicide.	No evidence	x	young adult	 Lesser than the mother-in-law, but the next stern figure for the new bride is the sister-in-law. The new wife must use honorific language toward the sisters and brothers of the husband even though they are younger than she. The elder sister-in-law may be absent, because she is already married-out. But the younger sister-in-law always stands by the side of the mother-in-law, to whom she reports every possible weakness and bad news of the new bride. The nearer the ages of the new bride and her sister-in-law, the worse their relationship. Many tragedies in Korea deal with this antagonism of the three women and many folk songs describe the miserable situation of the suffering new bride. In earlier times the severity of the women sometimes caused new brides to commit suicide.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 Lesser than the mother-in-law, but the next stern figure for the new bride is the sister-in-law. The new wife must use honorific language toward the sisters and brothers of the husband even though they are younger than she. The elder sister-in-law may be absent, because she is already married-out. But the younger sister-in-law always stands by the side of the mother-in-law, to whom she reports every possible weakness and bad news of the new bride. The nearer the ages of the new bride and her sister-in-law, the worse their relationship. Many tragedies in Korea deal with this antagonism of the three women and many folk songs describe the miserable situation of the suffering new bride. In earlier times the severity of the women sometimes caused new brides to commit suicide.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	ado_young_adult,adult,elder	affines	female	na	Evidence for	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence		x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	suffering (implied emotional)	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	na	no	Evidence for	unknown	unknown
826	zgarfield	Cultural model	Korea	In earlier times, when remarriage of a widow was considered the worst possible disgrace, there was a peculiar custom to remedy the young widows suffering. A poor man who could not meet the expense of a wedding could conspire with his close friends to capture a widow. Usually in the early morning or late evening when they would not be seen, the men would survey the house, seize the widow, and bring her home in a sack on their backs. The villagers and even officials would overlook this. In rare cases a widow would commit suicide, but in most cases she would continue a normal life.	Evidence for	x	adult,elderly	Usually in the early morning or late evening when they would not be seen, the men would survey the house, seize the widow, and bring her home in a sack on their backs. The villagers and even officials would overlook this. In rare cases a widow would commit suicide, but in most cases she would continue a normal life.	enslavement_capture	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Usually in the early morning or late evening when they would not be seen, the men would survey the house, seize the widow, and bring her home in a sack on their backs. The villagers and even officials would overlook this. In rare cases a widow would commit suicide, but in most cases she would continue a normal life.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	multiple social doma	male	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	Usually in the early morning or late evening when they would not be seen, the men would survey the house, seize the widow, and bring her home in a sack on their backs. The villagers and even officials would overlook this. In rare cases a widow would commit suicide, but in most cases she would continue a normal life.	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for		na
826	syme	Cultural model	Korea	In earlier times, when remarriage of a widow was considered the worst possible disgrace, there was a peculiar custom to remedy the young widows suffering. A poor man who could not meet the expense of a wedding could conspire with his close friends to capture a widow. Usually in the early morning or late evening when they would not be seen, the men would survey the house, seize the widow, and bring her home in a sack on their backs. The villagers and even officials would overlook this. In rare cases a widow would commit suicide, but in most cases she would continue a normal life.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,unknown	In earlier times, when remarriage of a widow was considered the worst possible disgrace, there was a peculiar custom to remedy the young widows suffering. A poor man who could not meet the expense of a wedding could conspire with his close friends to capture a widow. Usually in the early morning or late evening when they would not be seen, the men would survey the house, seize the widow, and bring her home in a sack on their backs. The villagers and even officials would overlook this. In rare cases a widow would commit suicide, but in most cases she would continue a normal life.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	In earlier times, when remarriage of a widow was considered the worst possible disgrace, there was a peculiar custom to remedy the young widows suffering. A poor man who could not meet the expense of a wedding could conspire with his close friends to capture a widow. Usually in the early morning or late evening when they would not be seen, the men would survey the house, seize the widow, and bring her home in a sack on their backs. The villagers and even officials would overlook this. In rare cases a widow would commit suicide, but in most cases she would continue a normal life.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	ado_young_adult,adult,unknown	husband	male	na	No evidence	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	low	na
828	zgarfield	Case	Santal	In a case which occurred in 1994 an Assistant Sub-Inspector and some constables visited a village close to Dumka, seized and bound some of the villagers, suspended them head downwards from a beam and then mercilessly beat the soles of their feet. One of the villagers who was a Santal was so wounded and humiliated that he threw himself down a well while another, a Bhuiya committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree. Other instances of harassment to parties have been alleged whereas complaints of this nature against sardars and parganas were previously very rare.	Evidence for	x		In a case which occurred in 1994 an Assistant Sub-Inspector and some constables visited a village close to Dumka, seized and bound some of the villagers, suspended them head downwards from a beam and then mercilessly beat the soles of their feet. One of the villagers who was a Santal was so wounded and humiliated that he threw himself down a well while another, a Bhuiya committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree. 	military defeat	No evidence	na	Evidence for	In a case which occurred in 1994 an Assistant Sub-Inspector and some constables visited a village close to Dumka, seized and bound some of the villagers, suspended them head downwards from a beam and then mercilessly beat the soles of their feet. One of the villagers who was a Santal was so wounded and humiliated that he threw himself down a well while another, a Bhuiya committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree. 	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging,jumping	One of the villagers who was a Santal was so wounded and humiliated that he threw himself down a well while another, a Bhuiya committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	captors	male	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	physical abuse	completion	x	No evidence	severe	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x		unknown	humiliated	x	x	x	not stated	2	x	x	Dumka, seized and bound some of the villagers, suspended them head downwards from a beam and then mercilessly beat the soles of their feet. One of the villagers who was a Santal was so wounded	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
828	syme	Case	Santal	In a case which occurred in 1994 an Assistant Sub-Inspector and some constables visited a village close to Dumka, seized and bound some of the villagers, suspended them head downwards from a beam and then mercilessly beat the soles of their feet. One of the villagers who was a Santal was so wounded and humiliated that he threw himself down a well while another, a Bhuiya committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree. Other instances of harassment to parties have been alleged whereas complaints of this nature against sardars and parganas were previously very rare.	Evidence for	x	adult,unknown	 In a case which occurred in 1994 an Assistant Sub-Inspector and some constables visited a village close to Dumka, seized and bound some of the villagers, suspended them head downwards from a beam and then mercilessly beat the soles of their feet. One of the villagers who was a Santal was so wounded and humiliated that he threw himself down a well while another, a Bhuiya committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree. Other instances of harassment to parties have been alleged whereas complaints of this nature against sardars and parganas were previously very rare.	other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 In a case which occurred in 1994 an Assistant Sub-Inspector and some constables visited a village close to Dumka, seized and bound some of the villagers, suspended them head downwards from a beam and then mercilessly beat the soles of their feet. One of the villagers who was a Santal was so wounded and humiliated that he threw himself down a well while another, a Bhuiya committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree. Other instances of harassment to parties have been alleged whereas complaints of this nature against sardars and parganas were previously very rare.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging,jumping	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	outgroup	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence against		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	other	x	4	x	x	x	unknown	humiliation	x	x	x	not stated	2,rate	x	x	 In a case which occurred in 1994 an Assistant Sub-Inspector and some constables visited a village close to Dumka, seized and bound some of the villagers, suspended them head downwards from a beam and then mercilessly beat the soles of their feet. One of the villagers who was a Santal was so wounded and humiliated that he threw himself down a well while another, a Bhuiya committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree. 	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	low	unknown
830	zgarfield	Cultural model	Taiwan Hokkien	There is general agreement that they originated in the T'ang dynasty. There were 360 people (of 132 surnames) who (1) drowned themselves in a poisoned well to warn people against drinking the water or (2) were scholars on their way to the examinations who were blown off course by typhoon o	No evidence	x	unknown	drowned themselves in a poisoned well to warn people against drinking the water	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	drowning	drowned themselves in a poisoned well to warn people against drinking the water	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	drowned themselves in a poisoned well to warn people against drinking the water	x	No evidence	public	no	No evidence		documented_account
830	syme	Cultural model	Taiwan Hokkien	There is general agreement that they originated in the T'ang dynasty. There were 360 people (of 132 surnames) who (1) drowned themselves in a poisoned well to warn people against drinking the water or (2) were scholars on their way to the examinations who were blown off course by typhoon o	No evidence	x	unknown	 There is general agreement that they originated in the T'ang dynasty. There were 360 people (of 132 surnames) who (1) drowned themselves in a poisoned well to warn people against drinking the water 	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 There is general agreement that they originated in the T'ang dynasty. There were 360 people (of 132 surnames) who (1) drowned themselves in a poisoned well to warn people against drinking the water 	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	drowning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown	x	Evidence against		man-made disaster	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	group	x	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
831	zgarfield	Case	Taiwan Hokkien	I Ai Kung, Sir Uprightness and Kindness, was a Japanese policeman, a Mr. Seijiro Morikawa, who was assigned to a post in Fu-lai in 1900, when he was thirty years old. People who knew Morikawa told Suzuki that he was an exceptionally considerate man, who devoted his life in Fu-lai to helping the local people. He gave money and medicine to poor families and never asked for compensation; he taught Japanese enthusiastically and helped farmers master new agricultural techniques; he served drinks bought with his own money to the men assigned on night watch; and he often risked his own life to save villagers from danger. He died on April 7, 1902, a victim of suicide. Reportedly the Governor-General had recently announced a new tax that would require Fu-lai's fishermen to pay four yen and fifty cents on each of their bamboo rafts. Afraid that many villagers could not afford this tax, Morikawa petitioned the government for a waiver. When his petition was refused, he became very depressed and shortly thereafter shot himself.	No evidence	x	adult	Reportedly the Governor-General had recently announced a new tax that would require Fu-lai's fishermen to pay four yen and fifty cents on each of their bamboo rafts. Afraid that many villagers could not afford this tax, Morikawa petitioned the government for a waiver. When his petition was refused, he became very depressed and shortly thereafter shot himself.	resource loss	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Reportedly the Governor-General had recently announced a new tax that would require Fu-lai's fishermen to pay four yen and fifty cents on each of their bamboo rafts. Afraid that many villagers could not afford this tax, Morikawa petitioned the government for a waiver. When his petition was refused, he became very depressed and shortly thereafter shot himself.	unknown	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	depression	No evidence	shooting	x	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	political power	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	 he became very depressed	"When his petition was refused, he became very depressed and shortly thereafter shot himself.
"	x	x	not stated	1	 he became very depressed	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
831	syme	Case	Taiwan Hokkien	I Ai Kung, Sir Uprightness and Kindness, was a Japanese policeman, a Mr. Seijiro Morikawa, who was assigned to a post in Fu-lai in 1900, when he was thirty years old. People who knew Morikawa told Suzuki that he was an exceptionally considerate man, who devoted his life in Fu-lai to helping the local people. He gave money and medicine to poor families and never asked for compensation; he taught Japanese enthusiastically and helped farmers master new agricultural techniques; he served drinks bought with his own money to the men assigned on night watch; and he often risked his own life to save villagers from danger. He died on April 7, 1902, a victim of suicide. Reportedly the Governor-General had recently announced a new tax that would require Fu-lai's fishermen to pay four yen and fifty cents on each of their bamboo rafts. Afraid that many villagers could not afford this tax, Morikawa petitioned the government for a waiver. When his petition was refused, he became very depressed and shortly thereafter shot himself.	Evidence for	x	adult	Reportedly the Governor-General had recently announced a new tax that would require Fu-lai's fishermen to pay four yen and fifty cents on each of their bamboo rafts. Afraid that many villagers could not afford this tax, Morikawa petitioned the government for a waiver. When his petition was refused, he became very depressed and shortly thereafter shot himself.	group conflict,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Reportedly the Governor-General had recently announced a new tax that would require Fu-lai's fishermen to pay four yen and fifty cents on each of their bamboo rafts. Afraid that many villagers could not afford this tax, Morikawa petitioned the government for a waiver. When his petition was refused, he became very depressed and shortly thereafter shot himself.	unknown	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	depression	No evidence	shooting	x	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	government	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence against		no evidence	completion	32	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x	x	unknown	he became very depressed 	x	x	x	not stated	1	depression	x	x	Evidence for	na	unknown	No evidence	high,unknown	unknown
832	zgarfield	Cultural model	Serbs	In intimate and family relationships the contrasts were equally great. Love relations were based on deep passion. Suicide and death because of the loss of a loved one and a broken heart were not rare among peasants. South Slav love songs were unequalled in beauty. Yet the ascetic trend, too, was stronger here than elsewhere: During the resistance fighting in the Second World War, the Partisans punished love affairs by death.	No evidence	x	adult	Suicide and death because of the loss of a loved one and a broken heart were not rare among peasants.	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	a broken heart	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
832	syme	Cultural model	Serbs	In intimate and family relationships the contrasts were equally great. Love relations were based on deep passion. Suicide and death because of the loss of a loved one and a broken heart were not rare among peasants. South Slav love songs were unequalled in beauty. Yet the ascetic trend, too, was stronger here than elsewhere: During the resistance fighting in the Second World War, the Partisans punished love affairs by death.	No evidence	x	unknown	In intimate and family relationships the contrasts were equally great. Love relations were based on deep passion. Suicide and death because of the loss of a loved one and a broken heart were not rare among peasants. 	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	both	immediate kin,spouse	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
833	zgarfield	Case	Kurds	The army had begun a preventive action in this area in the spring of 1937 with every weapon in its arsenal, including poison gas, heavy artillery, and even primitive bomber aircraft. By October 1938, the area, which had only been suspected of inclination to revolt, had been pacified. Accounts abound of refugees immolated in woods, collective suicides of Kurdish villagers throwing themselves off cliffs, and women and girls drowning themselves in rivers from fear of rape.	Evidence for	x	young adult,adult	Accounts abound of refugees immolated in woods, collective suicides of Kurdish villagers throwing themselves off cliffs, and women and girls drowning themselves in rivers from fear of rape.	enslavement_capture,military defeat	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Accounts abound of refugees immolated in woods, collective suicides of Kurdish villagers throwing themselves off cliffs, and women and girls drowning themselves in rivers from fear of rape.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping,drowning	Accounts abound of refugees immolated in woods, collective suicides of Kurdish villagers throwing themselves off cliffs, and women and girls drowning themselves in rivers from fear of rape.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	captors	unknown	na	No evidence	both		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	fear	 women and girls drowning themselves in rivers from fear of rape.	x	x	not stated	multiple	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
833	syme	Case	Kurds	The army had begun a preventive action in this area in the spring of 1937 with every weapon in its arsenal, including poison gas, heavy artillery, and even primitive bomber aircraft. By October 1938, the area, which had only been suspected of inclination to revolt, had been pacified. Accounts abound of refugees immolated in woods, collective suicides of Kurdish villagers throwing themselves off cliffs, and women and girls drowning themselves in rivers from fear of rape.	Evidence for	x	child,young adult,adult,unknown	The army had begun a preventive action in this area in the spring of 1937 with every weapon in its arsenal, including poison gas, heavy artillery, and even primitive bomber aircraft. By October 1938, the area, which had only been suspected of inclination to revolt, had been pacified. Accounts abound of refugees immolated in woods, collective suicides of Kurdish villagers throwing themselves off cliffs, and women and girls drowning themselves in rivers from fear of rape.	group conflict,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The army had begun a preventive action in this area in the spring of 1937 with every weapon in its arsenal, including poison gas, heavy artillery, and even primitive bomber aircraft. By October 1938, the area, which had only been suspected of inclination to revolt, had been pacified. Accounts abound of refugees immolated in woods, collective suicides of Kurdish villagers throwing themselves off cliffs, and women and girls drowning themselves in rivers from fear of rape.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	jumping,drowning,burning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	outgroup	na	na	No evidence	both	x	Evidence against		war,refugee	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	xx	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	unknown,rate	x	x	x	Evidence for	public	unknown	No evidence	low	unknown
834	zgarfield	Cultural model	Blackfoot	At the death of a husband a woman cuts off her hair just below the ears but for another relative only two or three inches of hair are cut off, just as the men do. The hair is not braided. They also leave off their leggings and the legs are gashed. Formerly, it is said a widow wore a string Page: 288 with one blue bead around each ankle. While mourning the women always leave off all ornaments and do not use paint on their faces. Sometimes mourners try to commit suicide but are usually prevented as they are watched closely.	No evidence	x	adult	While mourning the women always leave off all ornaments and do not use paint on their faces. Sometimes mourners try to commit suicide but are usually prevented as they are watched closely.	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	While mourning the women always leave off all ornaments and do not use paint on their faces. Sometimes mourners try to commit suicide but are usually prevented as they are watched closely	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	death of a loved one	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	mourning	x	x	x	not stated		x	While mourning the women always leave off all ornaments and do not use paint on their faces. Sometimes mourners try to commit suicide but are usually prevented as they are watched closely	x	No evidence	public	no	Evidence against		firsthand
834	syme	Cultural model	Blackfoot	At the death of a husband a woman cuts off her hair just below the ears but for another relative only two or three inches of hair are cut off, just as the men do. The hair is not braided. They also leave off their leggings and the legs are gashed. Formerly, it is said a widow wore a string Page: 288 with one blue bead around each ankle. While mourning the women always leave off all ornaments and do not use paint on their faces. Sometimes mourners try to commit suicide but are usually prevented as they are watched closely.	No evidence	x	unknown	At the death of a husband a woman cuts off her hair just below the ears but for another relative only two or three inches of hair are cut off, just as the men do. The hair is not braided. They also leave off their leggings and the legs are gashed. Formerly, it is said a widow wore a string Page: 288 with one blue bead around each ankle. While mourning the women always leave off all ornaments and do not use paint on their faces. Sometimes mourners try to commit suicide but are usually prevented as they are watched closely.	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female	husband	No evidence		no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	mourning	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	Sometimes mourners try to commit suicide but are usually prevented as they are watched closely.	x	No evidence	public	no	No evidence	unknown	na
835	zgarfield	Cultural model	Copper Inuit	In times of famine, it was naturally accepted that the least productive members of the family unit would be sacrificed. In some situations, an elderly individual who viewed himself as an unnecessary and unproductive burden might request a kinsman to assist him in terminating his life. The kinsman would be obliged, as a sign of respect, to abide by the wishes of the aged individual and would either assist him in committing suicide or kill him directly with his own hands. In both circumstances, the mercy killer is providing a culturally acceptable service and is not susceptible to public censure or ostracism.	No evidence	x	elderly,unknown	In times of famine, it was naturally accepted that the least productive members of the family unit would be sacrificed. In some situations, an elderly individual who viewed himself as an unnecessary and unproductive burden might request a kinsman to assist him in terminating his life. The kinsman would be obliged, as a sign of respect, to abide by the wishes of the aged individual and would either assist him in committing suicide or kill him directly with his own hands.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	popular	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	ask_someone_else,not stated	x	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	other	x		x	x		unknown	viewed himself as an unnecessary and unproductive burden	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	elderly	No evidence	public	no	Evidence against		na
835	syme	Cultural model	Copper Inuit	In times of famine, it was naturally accepted that the least productive members of the family unit would be sacrificed. In some situations, an elderly individual who viewed himself as an unnecessary and unproductive burden might request a kinsman to assist him in terminating his life. The kinsman would be obliged, as a sign of respect, to abide by the wishes of the aged individual and would either assist him in committing suicide or kill him directly with his own hands. In both circumstances, the mercy killer is providing a culturally acceptable service and is not susceptible to public censure or ostracism.	No evidence	x	elderly	In times of famine, it was naturally accepted that the least productive members of the family unit would be sacrificed. In some situations, an elderly individual who viewed himself as an unnecessary and unproductive burden might request a kinsman to assist him in terminating his life. The kinsman would be obliged, as a sign of respect, to abide by the wishes of the aged individual and would either assist him in committing suicide or kill him directly with his own hands. In both circumstances, the mercy killer is providing a culturally acceptable service and is not susceptible to public censure or ostracism.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly	unknown	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	ask_someone_else	In times of famine, it was naturally accepted that the least productive members of the family unit would be sacrificed. In some situations, an elderly individual who viewed himself as an unnecessary and unproductive burden might request a kinsman to assist him in terminating his life. 	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	kin	No evidence		natural disaster	completion	x	No evidence	chronic	unknown	x	x	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	In times of famine, it was naturally accepted that the least productive members of the family unit would be sacrificed. In some situations, an elderly individual who viewed himself as an unnecessary and unproductive burden might request a kinsman to assist him in terminating his life. 	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
836	zgarfield	Case	Copper Inuit	Their gay and care-free natures make suicide an extremely rare occurrence; in fact I do not remember hearing of more than one case, and that was due not to any morbid weariness of life, but to terror of the revenge that might be exacted for a crime that the man had committed.	No evidence	x	adult	"in fact I do not remember hearing of more than one case, and that was due not to any morbid weariness of life, but to terror of the revenge that might be exacted for a crime that the man had committed.
"	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"in fact I do not remember hearing of more than one case, and that was due not to any morbid weariness of life, but to terror of the revenge that might be exacted for a crime that the man had committed.
"	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	"terror of the revenge that might be exacted for a crime that the man had committed.
"	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	terror of the revenge 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
836	syme	Case	Copper Inuit	Their gay and care-free natures make suicide an extremely rare occurrence; in fact I do not remember hearing of more than one case, and that was due not to any morbid weariness of life, but to terror of the revenge that might be exacted for a crime that the man had committed.	No evidence	x	unknown	 but to terror of the revenge that might be exacted for a crime that the man had committed.	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 but to terror of the revenge that might be exacted for a crime that the man had committed.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	avenger	unknown	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	unknown	fear	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	 but to terror of the revenge that might be exacted for a crime that the man had committed.	x	Evidence for	na	no	Evidence for	unknown	unknown
837	zgarfield	Cultural model	Ojibwa	"Strong sanctions controlled overt expressions of conflict and anger in Ojibwa communities. Direct conflict was usually deflected through avoidance or silence; if not defused, antagonists might resort to indirect warfare, ""throwing bad medicine"" through sorcery. The introduction of alcohol evidently decreased inhibitions on physical abuse and violence. Stresses in modern reservation communities have exacerbated generational conflicts. Old mechanisms of control have broken down, and high youth suicide rates in northern Ontario, for example, testify to widespread problems in parent-child communications and to drastic changes in values surrounding individual behavior, agency, and responsibility (Bennett 1992)."	No evidence	x	young adult	Old mechanisms of control have broken down, and high youth suicide rates in northern Ontario, for example, testify to widespread problems in parent-child communications and to drastic changes in values surrounding individual behavior, agency, and responsibility	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated		x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
837	syme	Cultural model	Ojibwa	"Strong sanctions controlled overt expressions of conflict and anger in Ojibwa communities. Direct conflict was usually deflected through avoidance or silence; if not defused, antagonists might resort to indirect warfare, ""throwing bad medicine"" through sorcery. The introduction of alcohol evidently decreased inhibitions on physical abuse and violence. Stresses in modern reservation communities have exacerbated generational conflicts. Old mechanisms of control have broken down, and high youth suicide rates in northern Ontario, for example, testify to widespread problems in parent-child communications and to drastic changes in values surrounding individual behavior, agency, and responsibility (Bennett 1992)."	No evidence	x	young adult	The introduction of alcohol evidently decreased inhibitions on physical abuse and violence. Stresses in modern reservation communities have exacerbated generational conflicts. Old mechanisms of control have broken down, and high youth suicide rates in northern Ontario, for example, testify to widespread problems in parent-child communications and to drastic changes in values surrounding individual behavior, agency, and responsibility (Bennett 1992).	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 Old mechanisms of control have broken down, and high youth suicide rates in northern Ontario, for example, testify to widespread problems in parent-child communications and to drastic changes in values surrounding individual behavior, agency, and responsibility (Bennett 1992).	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	na
838	zgarfield	Case	Ojibwa	In 1927, besides Keewaydin of Temagami and its associated Ojibway Lodge, the company operated Keewaydin of Dunmore in Vermont; also in Vermont it operated a girls' camp and a family camp. That year it opened Keewaydin of England, a short-lived bicycling camp. The dynamic Commodore A.S. Gregg Clarke, who had Page: 179 been directing Keewaydin since before it had arrived on Lake Temagami, gave up his seat in the Connecticut legislature and a teaching position at the Gunnery School to establish a corporate office for Keewaydin in Philadelphia. But he spent many months each year in Temagami, still Keewaydin's flagship operation. Here, despite stern disapproval from friends and associates, the married Commodore became involved with Josephine Grundius, a Mtis. He was eventually forced to resign and leave Temagami. In 1926, a distraught Clarke lamented that he could not live without the flutter across his face of Temagami's keewaydin (the northwest wind) and committed suicide.	No evidence	x	adult	"Here, despite stern disapproval from friends and associates, the married Commodore became involved with Josephine Grundius, a Mtis. He was eventually forced to resign and leave Temagami. In 1926, a distraught Clarke lamented that he could not live without the flutter across his face of Temagami's keewaydin (the northwest wind) and committed suicide.
"	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Here, despite stern disapproval from friends and associates, the married Commodore became involved with Josephine Grundius, a Mtis. He was eventually forced to resign and leave Temagami. In 1926, a distraught Clarke lamented that he could not live without the flutter across his face of Temagami's keewaydin (the northwest wind) and committed suicide.
"	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		no	distraught	"He was eventually forced to resign and leave Temagami. In 1926, a distraught Clarke lamented that he could not live without the flutter across his face of Temagami's keewaydin (the northwest wind) and committed suicide.
"	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
838	syme	Case	Ojibwa	In 1927, besides Keewaydin of Temagami and its associated Ojibway Lodge, the company operated Keewaydin of Dunmore in Vermont; also in Vermont it operated a girls' camp and a family camp. That year it opened Keewaydin of England, a short-lived bicycling camp. The dynamic Commodore A.S. Gregg Clarke, who had Page: 179 been directing Keewaydin since before it had arrived on Lake Temagami, gave up his seat in the Connecticut legislature and a teaching position at the Gunnery School to establish a corporate office for Keewaydin in Philadelphia. But he spent many months each year in Temagami, still Keewaydin's flagship operation. Here, despite stern disapproval from friends and associates, the married Commodore became involved with Josephine Grundius, a Mtis. He was eventually forced to resign and leave Temagami. In 1926, a distraught Clarke lamented that he could not live without the flutter across his face of Temagami's keewaydin (the northwest wind) and committed suicide.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,unknown	In 1927, besides Keewaydin of Temagami and its associated Ojibway Lodge, the company operated Keewaydin of Dunmore in Vermont; also in Vermont it operated a girls' camp and a family camp. That year it opened Keewaydin of England, a short-lived bicycling camp. The dynamic Commodore A.S. Gregg Clarke, who had Page: 179 been directing Keewaydin since before it had arrived on Lake Temagami, gave up his seat in the Connecticut legislature and a teaching position at the Gunnery School to establish a corporate office for Keewaydin in Philadelphia. But he spent many months each year in Temagami, still Keewaydin's flagship operation. Here, despite stern disapproval from friends and associates, the married Commodore became involved with Josephine Grundius, a Mtis. He was eventually forced to resign and leave Temagami. In 1926, a distraught Clarke lamented that he could not live without the flutter across his face of Temagami's keewaydin (the northwest wind) and committed suicide.	interpersonal confli,loss social position,resource loss,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	In 1927, besides Keewaydin of Temagami and its associated Ojibway Lodge, the company operated Keewaydin of Dunmore in Vermont; also in Vermont it operated a girls' camp and a family camp. That year it opened Keewaydin of England, a short-lived bicycling camp. The dynamic Commodore A.S. Gregg Clarke, who had Page: 179 been directing Keewaydin since before it had arrived on Lake Temagami, gave up his seat in the Connecticut legislature and a teaching position at the Gunnery School to establish a corporate office for Keewaydin in Philadelphia. But he spent many months each year in Temagami, still Keewaydin's flagship operation. Here, despite stern disapproval from friends and associates, the married Commodore became involved with Josephine Grundius, a Mtis. He was eventually forced to resign and leave Temagami. In 1926, a distraught Clarke lamented that he could not live without the flutter across his face of Temagami's keewaydin (the northwest wind) and committed suicide.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	He was eventually forced to resign and leave Temagami. In 1926, a distraught Clarke lamented that he could not live without the flutter across his face of Temagami's keewaydin (the northwest wind) and committed suicide.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	social group	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	unknown	lamentation	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence for	low	unknown
839	zgarfield	Case	Ojibwa	In the summertime, we had our regular job to go to. For thirteen years we worked for the same American tourists at Island 672, Lake Temagami. This private camp was opened in 1919, owned by Mr. Horr and Mr. Yenne of Cleveland, Ohio. There were many landowners from Cleveland, Ohio. One family we liked very much were Mr. and Mrs. R.B. Newcombe. Much later we were shocked to hear of a tragedy in their home. It was reported that Mr. Newcombe killed his wife, Faith with an axe and then committed suicide.	No evidence	x	adult	 It was reported that Mr. Newcombe killed his wife, Faith with an axe and then committed suicide.	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	1	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence against		unknown
839	syme	Case	Ojibwa	In the summertime, we had our regular job to go to. For thirteen years we worked for the same American tourists at Island 672, Lake Temagami. This private camp was opened in 1919, owned by Mr. Horr and Mr. Yenne of Cleveland, Ohio. There were many landowners from Cleveland, Ohio. One family we liked very much were Mr. and Mrs. R.B. Newcombe. Much later we were shocked to hear of a tragedy in their home. It was reported that Mr. Newcombe killed his wife, Faith with an axe and then committed suicide.	No evidence	x	adult,elderly,unknown	 One family we liked very much were Mr. and Mrs. R.B. Newcombe. Much later we were shocked to hear of a tragedy in their home. It was reported that Mr. Newcombe killed his wife, Faith with an axe and then committed suicide.	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	killed wife with an axe	3	x	x	commit homicide	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence for	unknown	hearsay
840	zgarfield	Case	Pawnee	At last, the trial was held in Second Judicial District Court at Lincoln on October 23, 1871. On motion the case was ordered stricken from the docket, with the possibility of it being reinstated on motion. The Pawnee defendants were released from custody without bail. If no further evidence or testimony should be found implicating them in the crime, no more proceedings would be initiated against them. 60 . Barclay White to F. A. Walker, January 5, 1872, NA, Pawnee Agency, RG75 M234 R661. White, Journals, vol. I, pp. 302-303. Go to end note page Capt. Luther North later wrote that while they were in jail, Yellow Sun and Horse Driver had attempted suicide and Little Wolf had died there. Blue Hawk had escaped once, but Maj. Frank North had taken him back to Omaha. Those Pawnees who were released all died within a short time. 61 . Donald F. Danker, Man of the Plains: Recollections of Luther North (Lincoln: University of Nebraska, 1961), pp. 129-30.	Evidence for	x	adult	Go to end note page Capt. Luther North later wrote that while they were in jail, Yellow Sun and Horse Driver had attempted suicide	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	Go to end note page Capt. Luther North later wrote that while they were in jail, Yellow Sun and Horse Driver had attempted suicide	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	captors	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	2	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		documented_account
840	syme	Case	Pawnee	At last, the trial was held in Second Judicial District Court at Lincoln on October 23, 1871. On motion the case was ordered stricken from the docket, with the possibility of it being reinstated on motion. The Pawnee defendants were released from custody without bail. If no further evidence or testimony should be found implicating them in the crime, no more proceedings would be initiated against them. 60 . Barclay White to F. A. Walker, January 5, 1872, NA, Pawnee Agency, RG75 M234 R661. White, Journals, vol. I, pp. 302-303. Go to end note page Capt. Luther North later wrote that while they were in jail, Yellow Sun and Horse Driver had attempted suicide and Little Wolf had died there. Blue Hawk had escaped once, but Maj. Frank North had taken him back to Omaha. Those Pawnees who were released all died within a short time. 61 . Donald F. Danker, Man of the Plains: Recollections of Luther North (Lincoln: University of Nebraska, 1961), pp. 129-30.	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	 Capt. Luther North later wrote that while they were in jail, Yellow Sun and Horse Driver had attempted suicide and Little Wolf had died there. Blue Hawk had escaped once, but Maj. Frank North had taken him back to Omaha. Those Pawnees who were released all died within a short time. 61	group conflict,enslavement_capture,accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 Capt. Luther North later wrote that while they were in jail, Yellow Sun and Horse Driver had attempted suicide and Little Wolf had died there. Blue Hawk had escaped once, but Maj. Frank North had taken him back to Omaha. Those Pawnees who were released all died within a short time. 61	unknown	na	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	outgroup	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	low	documented_account
841	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tlingit	Another example of this appears in the case of suicide. If it could be shown that a man had conmitted suicide because his wife had treated him badly, then a man of his wifes clan could be selected and killed. Therefore a Tlingit woman was very careful how she treated her husband. This punishment was also meted out to others who caused a man to commit suicide.	Evidence for	x	adult	Another example of this appears in the case of suicide. If it could be shown that a man had conmitted suicide because his wife had treated him badly, then a man of his wifes clan could be selected and killed. Therefore a Tlingit woman was very careful how she treated her husband. 	interpersonal confli	No evidence	unknown	Evidence for	Another example of this appears in the case of suicide. If it could be shown that a man had conmitted suicide because his wife had treated him badly, then a man of his wifes clan could be selected and killed. Therefore a Tlingit woman was very careful how she treated her husband. 	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	Another example of this appears in the case of suicide. If it could be shown that a man had conmitted suicide because his wife had treated him badly, then a man of his wifes clan could be selected and killed. Therefore a Tlingit woman was very careful how she treated her husband. 	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence against		na
841	syme	Cultural model	Tlingit	Another example of this appears in the case of suicide. If it could be shown that a man had conmitted suicide because his wife had treated him badly, then a man of his wifes clan could be selected and killed. Therefore a Tlingit woman was very careful how she treated her husband. This punishment was also meted out to others who caused a man to commit suicide.	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	Another example of this appears in the case of suicide. If it could be shown that a man had conmitted suicide because his wife had treated him badly, then a man of his wifes clan could be selected and killed. Therefore a Tlingit woman was very careful how she treated her husband. This punishment was also meted out to others who caused a man to commit suicide.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Another example of this appears in the case of suicide. If it could be shown that a man had conmitted suicide because his wife had treated him badly, then a man of his wifes clan could be selected and killed. Therefore a Tlingit woman was very careful how she treated her husband. This punishment was also meted out to others who caused a man to commit suicide.	pityingly	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	wife	female	na	Evidence for	male	wife	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	Another example of this appears in the case of suicide. If it could be shown that a man had conmitted suicide because his wife had treated him badly, then a man of his wifes clan could be selected and killed. Therefore a Tlingit woman was very careful how she treated her husband. This punishment was also meted out to others who caused a man to commit suicide.	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
842	zgarfield	Case	Chuuk	The fourth endogamous marriage, however, precipitated a crisis. It involved members of two lineages which belonged to the same subsib and which had formerly been united in a ramage. Only threats of suicide by the couple finally forced the chief and the respective lineage heads reluctantly to give their consent, which they rationalized by pointing out that the fathers of the pair, at least, were in no way related.	No evidence	x	young adult	Only threats of suicide by the couple finally forced the chief and the respective lineage heads reluctantly to give their consent, which they rationalized by pointing out that the fathers of the pair, at least, were in no way related.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Only threats of suicide by the couple finally forced the chief and the respective lineage heads reluctantly to give their consent, which they rationalized by pointing out that the fathers of the pair, at least, were in no way related.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	Only threats of suicide by the couple finally forced the chief and the respective lineage heads reluctantly to give their consent, which they rationalized by pointing out that the fathers of the pair, at least, were in no way related.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	multiple social doma	male	na	No evidence	both		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	threat	x	No evidence		no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	xx	x	x	x	not stated	2	x	Only threats of suicide by the couple finally forced the chief and the respective lineage heads reluctantly to give their consent, which they rationalized by pointing out that the fathers of the pair, at least, were in no way related.	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence against		firsthand
842	syme	Case	Chuuk	The fourth endogamous marriage, however, precipitated a crisis. It involved members of two lineages which belonged to the same subsib and which had formerly been united in a ramage. Only threats of suicide by the couple finally forced the chief and the respective lineage heads reluctantly to give their consent, which they rationalized by pointing out that the fathers of the pair, at least, were in no way related.	No evidence	x	young adult	The fourth endogamous marriage, however, precipitated a crisis. It involved members of two lineages which belonged to the same subsib and which had formerly been united in a ramage. Only threats of suicide by the couple finally forced the chief and the respective lineage heads reluctantly to give their consent, which they rationalized by pointing out that the fathers of the pair, at least, were in no way related.	other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The fourth endogamous marriage, however, precipitated a crisis. It involved members of two lineages which belonged to the same subsib and which had formerly been united in a ramage. Only threats of suicide by the couple finally forced the chief and the respective lineage heads reluctantly to give their consent, which they rationalized by pointing out that the fathers of the pair, at least, were in no way related.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	The fourth endogamous marriage, however, precipitated a crisis. It involved members of two lineages which belonged to the same subsib and which had formerly been united in a ramage. Only threats of suicide by the couple finally forced the chief and the respective lineage heads reluctantly to give their consent, which they rationalized by pointing out that the fathers of the pair, at least, were in no way related.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	kin	na	na	No evidence	both	kin	Evidence for		no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	2	x	The fourth endogamous marriage, however, precipitated a crisis. It involved members of two lineages which belonged to the same subsib and which had formerly been united in a ramage. Only threats of suicide by the couple finally forced the chief and the respective lineage heads reluctantly to give their consent, which they rationalized by pointing out that the fathers of the pair, at least, were in no way related.	x	Evidence for	public	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
843	zgarfield	Cultural model	Kapauku	Suicides are usually committed only by women. Drowning is their most frequent technique. The act is considered immoral and a personal offense to the owner of the woman, the individual who paid her bride price or who is entitled to it when she gets-married.	No evidence	x	adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	drowning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	more often women		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
843	syme	Cultural model	Kapauku	Suicides are usually committed only by women. Drowning is their most frequent technique. The act is considered immoral and a personal offense to the owner of the woman, the individual who paid her bride price or who is entitled to it when she gets-married.	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	drowning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na		na	na	No evidence	female	husband,father	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	Suicides are usually committed only by women. Drowning is their most frequent technique. The act is considered immoral and a personal offense to the owner of the woman, the individual who paid her bride price or who is entitled to it when she gets-married.	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
844	zgarfield	Case	Kapauku	Rule 6: Attempted suicide is punishable by a beating administered by the womans owner. Facts: The girl was being forced to marry a man she did not like. She attempted suicide several times in order to prevent the marriage. She was always saved from the river or captured on its bank. Outcome: Every time she attempted a suicide, she was beaten severely afterwards. Since she did not stop, her brother and father consented to her marriage with Jok whom she loved.	No evidence	x	young adult	The girl was being forced to marry a man she did not like. She attempted suicide several times in order to prevent the marriage. She was always saved from the river or captured on its bank. 	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The girl was being forced to marry a man she did not like. She attempted suicide several times in order to prevent the marriage. She was always saved from the river or captured on its bank. 	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	jumping	She attempted suicide several times in order to prevent the marriage	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	male	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x		no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"Every time she attempted a suicide, she was beaten severely afterwards. Since she did not stop, her brother and father consented to her marriage with Jok whom she loved.
"	x	Evidence for	public	no	Evidence against		firsthand
844	syme	Case	Kapauku	Rule 6: Attempted suicide is punishable by a beating administered by the womans owner. Facts: The girl was being forced to marry a man she did not like. She attempted suicide several times in order to prevent the marriage. She was always saved from the river or captured on its bank. Outcome: Every time she attempted a suicide, she was beaten severely afterwards. Since she did not stop, her brother and father consented to her marriage with Jok whom she loved.	Evidence for	x	young adult	Rule 6: Attempted suicide is punishable by a beating administered by the womans owner. Facts: The girl was being forced to marry a man she did not like. She attempted suicide several times in order to prevent the marriage. She was always saved from the river or captured on its bank. Outcome: Every time she attempted a suicide, she was beaten severely afterwards. Since she did not stop, her brother and father consented to her marriage with Jok whom she loved.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Rule 6: Attempted suicide is punishable by a beating administered by the womans owner. Facts: The girl was being forced to marry a man she did not like. She attempted suicide several times in order to prevent the marriage. She was always saved from the river or captured on its bank. Outcome: Every time she attempted a suicide, she was beaten severely afterwards. Since she did not stop, her brother and father consented to her marriage with Jok whom she loved.	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	drowning	Rule 6: Attempted suicide is punishable by a beating administered by the womans owner. Facts: The girl was being forced to marry a man she did not like. She attempted suicide several times in order to prevent the marriage. She was always saved from the river or captured on its bank. Outcome: Every time she attempted a suicide, she was beaten severely afterwards. Since she did not stop, her brother and father consented to her marriage with Jok whom she loved.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult,unknown	father,brother	male	na	No evidence	female	x	Evidence for		physical abuse	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	Since she did not stop, her brother and father consented to her marriage with Jok whom she loved.	x	Evidence for	public	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
845	zgarfield	Cultural model	Mataco	If the infidelity is repeated, the result is often divorce (ibid:352; see 4.5.4.). When this happens, the injured party stays in the hut and keeps the children, and the offender has to leave, bringing away only his/her personal property (see 6.8.). Thus, descent plays no part when deciding about the future of the children (cf. 4.3.3.). An injured party without children often commits suicide (ibid), whereas one with children always remarries almost immediately.	No evidence	x	adult	 If the infidelity is repeated, the result is often divorce (ibid:352; see 4.5.4.). When this happens, the injured party stays in the hut and keeps the children, and the offender has to leave, bringing away only his/her personal property (see 6.8.). Thus, descent plays no part when deciding about the future of the children (cf. 4.3.3.). An injured party without children often commits suicide (ibid), whereas one with children always remarries almost immediately.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 If the infidelity is repeated, the result is often divorce (ibid:352; see 4.5.4.). When this happens, the injured party stays in the hut and keeps the children, and the offender has to leave, bringing away only his/her personal property (see 6.8.). Thus, descent plays no part when deciding about the future of the children (cf. 4.3.3.). An injured party without children often commits suicide (ibid), whereas one with children always remarries almost immediately.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	both	na	No evidence	both		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence for		firsthand
845	syme	Cultural model	Mataco	If the infidelity is repeated, the result is often divorce (ibid:352; see 4.5.4.). When this happens, the injured party stays in the hut and keeps the children, and the offender has to leave, bringing away only his/her personal property (see 6.8.). Thus, descent plays no part when deciding about the future of the children (cf. 4.3.3.). An injured party without children often commits suicide (ibid), whereas one with children always remarries almost immediately.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,unknown	If the infidelity is repeated, the result is often divorce (ibid:352; see 4.5.4.). When this happens, the injured party stays in the hut and keeps the children, and the offender has to leave, bringing away only his/her personal property (see 6.8.). Thus, descent plays no part when deciding about the future of the children (cf. 4.3.3.). An injured party without children often commits suicide (ibid), whereas one with children always remarries almost immediately.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	If the infidelity is repeated, the result is often divorce (ibid:352; see 4.5.4.). When this happens, the injured party stays in the hut and keeps the children, and the offender has to leave, bringing away only his/her personal property (see 6.8.). Thus, descent plays no part when deciding about the future of the children (cf. 4.3.3.). An injured party without children often commits suicide (ibid), whereas one with children always remarries almost immediately.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	spouse	unknown	na	Evidence for	both	x	Evidence against		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	na
846	zgarfield	Cultural model	Mataco	If unfaithfulness leads to homicide, this is considered too drastic a measure, even if it is a crime passionel (cf. Fock 1966:352). The erring party thus immediately becomes the injured one and some kind of compensation is sought for the loss. This is also the case when a quarrel has led to homicide, or when someone is accused of having caused suicide (e.g. through infidelity).	No evidence	x	unknown	The erring party thus immediately becomes the injured one and some kind of compensation is sought for the loss. This is also the case when a quarrel has led to homicide, or when someone is accused of having caused suicide (e.g. through infidelity).	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	The erring party thus immediately becomes the injured one and some kind of compensation is sought for the loss. This is also the case when a quarrel has led to homicide, or when someone is accused of having caused suicide (e.g. through infidelity).	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
846	syme	Cultural model	Mataco	If unfaithfulness leads to homicide, this is considered too drastic a measure, even if it is a crime passionel (cf. Fock 1966:352). The erring party thus immediately becomes the injured one and some kind of compensation is sought for the loss. This is also the case when a quarrel has led to homicide, or when someone is accused of having caused suicide (e.g. through infidelity).	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	If unfaithfulness leads to homicide, this is considered too drastic a measure, even if it is a crime passionel (cf. Fock 1966:352). The erring party thus immediately becomes the injured one and some kind of compensation is sought for the loss. This is also the case when a quarrel has led to homicide, or when someone is accused of having caused suicide (e.g. through infidelity).	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	If unfaithfulness leads to homicide, this is considered too drastic a measure, even if it is a crime passionel (cf. Fock 1966:352). The erring party thus immediately becomes the injured one and some kind of compensation is sought for the loss. This is also the case when a quarrel has led to homicide, or when someone is accused of having caused suicide (e.g. through infidelity).	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult,unknown	spouse	both	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	If unfaithfulness leads to homicide, this is considered too drastic a measure, even if it is a crime passionel (cf. Fock 1966:352). The erring party thus immediately becomes the injured one and some kind of compensation is sought for the loss. This is also the case when a quarrel has led to homicide, or when someone is accused of having caused suicide (e.g. through infidelity).	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
847	zgarfield	Cultural model	Saramaka	A woman from Bendekonde composed a bitter song that was addressed, I was told, to her husbands sister, and incorporated a Page: 185 thinly veiled reference to the most powerful threat of all. Doing a certain thing (suicide) is the ultimate weapon available to a Saramaka who has been mistreated, for it creates an avenging spirit that will torment the wrongdoers lineage forever.	No evidence	Doing a certain thing (suicide) is the ultimate weapon available to a Saramaka who has been mistreated, for it creates an avenging spirit that will torment the wrongdoers lineage forever.	adult	Doing a certain thing (suicide) is the ultimate weapon available to a Saramaka who has been mistreated, for it creates an avenging spirit that will torment the wrongdoers lineage forever.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Doing a certain thing (suicide) is the ultimate weapon available to a Saramaka who has been mistreated, for it creates an avenging spirit that will torment the wrongdoers lineage forever.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	Doing a certain thing (suicide) is the ultimate weapon available to a Saramaka who has been mistreated, for it creates an avenging spirit that will torment the wrongdoers lineage forever.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown,na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
847	syme	Cultural model	Saramaka	A woman from Bendekonde composed a bitter song that was addressed, I was told, to her husbands sister, and incorporated a Page: 185 thinly veiled reference to the most powerful threat of all. Doing a certain thing (suicide) is the ultimate weapon available to a Saramaka who has been mistreated, for it creates an avenging spirit that will torment the wrongdoers lineage forever.	No evidence	haunt adversaries 	unknown	A woman from Bendekonde composed a bitter song that was addressed, I was told, to her husbands sister, and incorporated a Page: 185 thinly veiled reference to the most powerful threat of all. Doing a certain thing (suicide) is the ultimate weapon available to a Saramaka who has been mistreated, for it creates an avenging spirit that will torment the wrongdoers lineage forever.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	A woman from Bendekonde composed a bitter song that was addressed, I was told, to her husbands sister, and incorporated a Page: 185 thinly veiled reference to the most powerful threat of all. Doing a certain thing (suicide) is the ultimate weapon available to a Saramaka who has been mistreated, for it creates an avenging spirit that will torment the wrongdoers lineage forever.	fearfully	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	revenge	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	adversary	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown	adversary	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
1053	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tukano/Ticuna	But without fail people tell me that close relatives try to spear themselves at the death of wife, child, brother, father or mother.	No evidence	x	adult	But without fail people tell me that close relatives try to spear themselves at the death of wife, child, brother, father or mother.	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	stabbing	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	both		No evidence	Evidence for	death of a loved one	attempt	x  		na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		secondhand
1053	syme	Cultural model	Tukano/Ticuna	But without fail people tell me that close relatives try to spear themselves at the death of wife, child, brother, father or mother.	No evidence	x	unknown	But without fail people tell me that close relatives try to spear themselves at the death of wife, child, brother, father or mother.	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	stabbing	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	both	immediate kin	No evidence		no evidence	attempt	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
1054	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tukano/Ticuna	When a suitor presents himself to the girl's father the girl is asked if she approves of the man. Usually she does, but if she has another person in mind or is violently against the suitor, she will resist the marriage and in direst extremity threaten to commit suicide. The more usual course is for the girl to run away. On the whole, however, girls are satisfied with their partners. Young men may have greater attractions but older men are considered good husbands since the girls like the company of other wives and prefer a wealthier homestead and less drudgery where others share the work.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult	When a suitor presents himself to the girl's father the girl is asked if she approves of the man. Usually she does, but if she has another person in mind or is violently against the suitor, she will resist the marriage and in direst extremity threaten to commit suicide. 	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	When a suitor presents himself to the girl's father the girl is asked if she approves of the man. Usually she does, but if she has another person in mind or is violently against the suitor, she will resist the marriage and in direst extremity threaten to commit suicide. 	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	she will resist the marriage and in direst extremity threaten to commit suicide.	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	she will resist the marriage	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		firsthand
1054	syme	Cultural model	Tukano/Ticuna	When a suitor presents himself to the girl's father the girl is asked if she approves of the man. Usually she does, but if she has another person in mind or is violently against the suitor, she will resist the marriage and in direst extremity threaten to commit suicide. The more usual course is for the girl to run away. On the whole, however, girls are satisfied with their partners. Young men may have greater attractions but older men are considered good husbands since the girls like the company of other wives and prefer a wealthier homestead and less drudgery where others share the work.	No evidence	x	young adult	When a suitor presents himself to the girl's father the girl is asked if she approves of the man. Usually she does, but if she has another person in mind or is violently against the suitor, she will resist the marriage and in direst extremity threaten to commit suicide.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	When a suitor presents himself to the girl's father the girl is asked if she approves of the man. Usually she does, but if she has another person in mind or is violently against the suitor, she will resist the marriage and in direst extremity threaten to commit suicide.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	unknown	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	na	Usually she does, but if she has another person in mind or is violently against the suitor, she will resist the marriage and in direst extremity threaten to commit suicide. The more usual course is for the girl to run away.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	adult	father	male	na	No evidence	female	father	Evidence for		no evidence	threat	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	or is violently against the suitor	x	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	public	no	No evidence	unknown	na
1541	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tukano/Ticuna	The Tucuna are industrious and hard working, kind to their friends, honest, patient, and hospitable. But they are more liable than other Indians to great outbursts of sudden anger, a trait which sometimes leads them to suicide. This is a manifestation of their individualism and desire to live Page: 717 apart, which is correlated with their lack of social organization other than blood ties. When drunk they quarrel and often cause injuries and death.	No evidence	x	adult	But they are more liable than other Indians to great outbursts of sudden anger, a trait which sometimes leads them to suicide.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	No evidence	But they are more liable than other Indians to great outbursts of sudden anger, a trait which sometimes leads them to suicide..When drunk they quarrel and often cause injuries and death.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	social partners	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	"When drunk they quarrel and often cause injuries and death.
"		x	x		na	sudden anger	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		first person
1541	syme	Cultural model	Tukano/Ticuna	The Tucuna are industrious and hard working, kind to their friends, honest, patient, and hospitable. But they are more liable than other Indians to great outbursts of sudden anger, a trait which sometimes leads them to suicide. This is a manifestation of their individualism and desire to live Page: 717 apart, which is correlated with their lack of social organization other than blood ties. When drunk they quarrel and often cause injuries and death.	No evidence	x	unknown	The Tucuna are industrious and hard working, kind to their friends, honest, patient, and hospitable. But they are more liable than other Indians to great outbursts of sudden anger, a trait which sometimes leads them to suicide.	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	great outbursts of sudden anger, a trait which sometimes leads them to suicide.	x	x	x	x	unknown	anger	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
1542	zgarfield	Case	Tukano/Ticuna	More tragic than these imbecilities are the suicides committed in rage. In 1941 a woman, some thirty years old, who lived with her parents at Barreiras de Belm. went to the riverbank in a mood of drunken melancholy. There she drank a little rum and bought another bottle, which she took to her mother. The latter replied that the daughter could keep the rum; she wanted none of it. With no further word the daughter proceeded to the neighboring garden clearing (roa ), dissolved fish drug (timb) in a gourd of water, and drank it. Someone heard her faint cry, but since no one suspected what she was doing, no importance was attached to it, and it was not until later that the body of the suicide was found.	No evidence	x	adult	More tragic than these imbecilities are the suicides committed in rage. In 1941 a woman, some thirty years old, who lived with her parents at Barreiras de Belm. went to the riverbank in a mood of drunken melancholy. 	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na		poisoning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	30	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	There she drank a little rum and bought another bottle	5	x	x		unknown	drunken melancholy	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	private	no	Evidence against		firsthand
1542	syme	Case	Tukano/Ticuna	More tragic than these imbecilities are the suicides committed in rage. In 1941 a woman, some thirty years old, who lived with her parents at Barreiras de Belm. went to the riverbank in a mood of drunken melancholy. There she drank a little rum and bought another bottle, which she took to her mother. The latter replied that the daughter could keep the rum; she wanted none of it. With no further word the daughter proceeded to the neighboring garden clearing (roa ), dissolved fish drug (timb) in a gourd of water, and drank it. Someone heard her faint cry, but since no one suspected what she was doing, no importance was attached to it, and it was not until later that the body of the suicide was found.	No evidence	x	adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	poisoning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	30	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	drinking	4	x	x	drunk at time	unknown	melancholy	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	Someone heard her faint cry, but since no one suspected what she was doing, no importance was attached to it, and it was not until later that the body of the suicide was found.	x	No evidence	private	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
1543	zgarfield	Case	Tukano/Ticuna	A week afterward, this same woman's nephew, called Beni, about twenty years old, also committed suicide in the same spot by drinking timb. Before daybreak he had gone out to fish, returning about nine o'clock with a surubm, which he handed to his wife, a very young girl whom he had married just a short time before. Seeing that the little wife was not overeager to prepare the fish, he grew angry and finally struck her. His stepfather intervened, saying: Well, and was it to have a woman to beat that you married? This was enough to send Beni silently out of the house and into hiding, where he took the drug.	No evidence	x	adult	"Seeing that the little wife was not overeager to prepare the fish, he grew angry and finally struck her. His stepfather intervened, saying: Well, and was it to have a woman to beat that you married? This was enough to send Beni silently out of the house and into hiding, where he took the drug.
"	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Seeing that the little wife was not overeager to prepare the fish, he grew angry and finally struck her. His stepfather intervened, saying: Well, and was it to have a woman to beat that you married? This was enough to send Beni silently out of the house and into hiding, where he took the drug.
"	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	poisoning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	multiple social doma	female	na	No evidence	male		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	20	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x		unknown	he grew angry	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	private	unknown	Evidence against		firsthand
1543	syme	Case	Tukano/Ticuna	A week afterward, this same woman's nephew, called Beni, about twenty years old, also committed suicide in the same spot by drinking timb. Before daybreak he had gone out to fish, returning about nine o'clock with a surubm, which he handed to his wife, a very young girl whom he had married just a short time before. Seeing that the little wife was not overeager to prepare the fish, he grew angry and finally struck her. His stepfather intervened, saying: Well, and was it to have a woman to beat that you married? This was enough to send Beni silently out of the house and into hiding, where he took the drug.	No evidence	x	young adult	 A week afterward, this same woman's nephew, called Beni, about twenty years old, also committed suicide in the same spot by drinking timb. Before daybreak he had gone out to fish, returning about nine o'clock with a surubm, which he handed to his wife, a very young girl whom he had married just a short time before. Seeing that the little wife was not overeager to prepare the fish, he grew angry and finally struck her. His stepfather intervened, saying: Well, and was it to have a woman to beat that you married? This was enough to send Beni silently out of the house and into hiding, where he took the drug.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 A week afterward, this same woman's nephew, called Beni, about twenty years old, also committed suicide in the same spot by drinking timb. Before daybreak he had gone out to fish, returning about nine o'clock with a surubm, which he handed to his wife, a very young girl whom he had married just a short time before. Seeing that the little wife was not overeager to prepare the fish, he grew angry and finally struck her. His stepfather intervened, saying: Well, and was it to have a woman to beat that you married? This was enough to send Beni silently out of the house and into hiding, where he took the drug.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	poisoning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	affine	male	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	20	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	private	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
1544	zgarfield	Case	Tukano/Ticuna	About the same time, another suicide occurred in Igarap de Belm. A boy of sixteen returned with his relatives from a labor festival. He was not drunk, but when the canoe touched the bank, they noticed that he leaped ashore angry, for no perceptible reason. He ran up the slope above, entered the house, where he immediately mounted the platform (giru), and flung himself under the mosquito Page: 52 net. His mother and aunt, taking their burden baskets, went to fetch manioc roots, which they had put to soak; the uncle was bathing near by. Aside from the youth, there remained in the house only a little boy some seven years old. Suddenly the youth fell from the platform, which was about 2 frac12; m. above the ground, and for some time remained immobile on the floor. Then he said: Why didst thou quarrel with me? Now I shall leave! He arose and took to the jungle. The little boy followed him in bewilderment; but the youth, noticing him, left the trail and hid himself. A little later he returned to the house, staggering, fell upon a box, and there died of the poison he had taken.	No evidence	X	child	A boy of sixteen returned with his relatives from a labor festival. He was not drunk, but when the canoe touched the bank, they noticed that he leaped ashore angry, for no perceptible reason. 	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	poisoning	X	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	12	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	X	3	X	X		unknown	angry	X	X	X	not stated	1	X	X	X	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		firsthand
1544	syme	Case	Tukano/Ticuna	About the same time, another suicide occurred in Igarap de Belm. A boy of sixteen returned with his relatives from a labor festival. He was not drunk, but when the canoe touched the bank, they noticed that he leaped ashore angry, for no perceptible reason. He ran up the slope above, entered the house, where he immediately mounted the platform (giru), and flung himself under the mosquito Page: 52 net. His mother and aunt, taking their burden baskets, went to fetch manioc roots, which they had put to soak; the uncle was bathing near by. Aside from the youth, there remained in the house only a little boy some seven years old. Suddenly the youth fell from the platform, which was about 2 frac12; m. above the ground, and for some time remained immobile on the floor. Then he said: Why didst thou quarrel with me? Now I shall leave! He arose and took to the jungle. The little boy followed him in bewilderment; but the youth, noticing him, left the trail and hid himself. A little later he returned to the house, staggering, fell upon a box, and there died of the poison he had taken.	No evidence	x	young adult	About the same time, another suicide occurred in Igarap de Belm. A boy of sixteen returned with his relatives from a labor festival. He was not drunk, but when the canoe touched the bank, they noticed that he leaped ashore angry, for no perceptible reason. He ran up the slope above, entered the house, where he immediately mounted the platform (giru), and flung himself under the mosquito Page: 52 net. His mother and aunt, taking their burden baskets, went to fetch manioc roots, which they had put to soak; the uncle was bathing near by. Aside from the youth, there remained in the house only a little boy some seven years old. Suddenly the youth fell from the platform, which was about 2 frac12; m. above the ground, and for some time remained immobile on the floor. Then he said: Why didst thou quarrel with me? Now I shall leave! He arose and took to the jungle. The little boy followed him in bewilderment; but the youth, noticing him, left the trail and hid himself. A little later he returned to the house, staggering, fell upon a box, and there died of the poison he had taken.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	About the same time, another suicide occurred in Igarap de Belm. A boy of sixteen returned with his relatives from a labor festival. He was not drunk, but when the canoe touched the bank, they noticed that he leaped ashore angry, for no perceptible reason. He ran up the slope above, entered the house, where he immediately mounted the platform (giru), and flung himself under the mosquito Page: 52 net. His mother and aunt, taking their burden baskets, went to fetch manioc roots, which they had put to soak; the uncle was bathing near by. Aside from the youth, there remained in the house only a little boy some seven years old. Suddenly the youth fell from the platform, which was about 2 frac12; m. above the ground, and for some time remained immobile on the floor. Then he said: Why didst thou quarrel with me? Now I shall leave! He arose and took to the jungle. The little boy followed him in bewilderment; but the youth, noticing him, left the trail and hid himself. A little later he returned to the house, staggering, fell upon a box, and there died of the poison he had taken.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	poisoning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	unknown	unknown	na	No evidence	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	16	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	x	no	anger	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
1545	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tukano/Ticuna	Other witchcraft. Thorns, however, are not the only means by which the sorcerers destroy the objects of their malevolence. Some harbor a venomous snake in their body and send it against the enemy. Others sing to the spirit of the shaman log rotting on the riverbank, transforming it into a snake that will bite the enemy as he passes. Not all snake bites are caused by witchcraft, however; there are snakes that, without having any connection at all with shamans, bite anyone who passes. Again, sorcerers send the ghosts of ferocious animals against the persons whom they wish to eliminate, causing the victims to provoke bloody quarrels in which they are killed. Others, by a method I failed to learn, cause madness in their victims, who commit suicide. The suicides described earlier, and one not mentioned, were all attributed to the malefactions of the celebrated warlock, U'irU, whose death I shall relate farther on.	No evidence	x	unknown	Others, by a method I failed to learn, cause madness in their victims, who commit suicide. The suicides described earlier, and one not mentioned, were all attributed to the malefactions of the celebrated warlock, U'irU, whose death I shall relate farther on.	spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	Others, by a method I failed to learn, cause madness in their victims, who commit suicide. The suicides described earlier, and one not mentioned, were all attributed to the malefactions of the celebrated warlock, U'irU, whose death I shall relate farther on.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	madness	x	x	x	not stated	1	madness	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
1545	syme	Cultural model	Tukano/Ticuna	Other witchcraft. Thorns, however, are not the only means by which the sorcerers destroy the objects of their malevolence. Some harbor a venomous snake in their body and send it against the enemy. Others sing to the spirit of the shaman log rotting on the riverbank, transforming it into a snake that will bite the enemy as he passes. Not all snake bites are caused by witchcraft, however; there are snakes that, without having any connection at all with shamans, bite anyone who passes. Again, sorcerers send the ghosts of ferocious animals against the persons whom they wish to eliminate, causing the victims to provoke bloody quarrels in which they are killed. Others, by a method I failed to learn, cause madness in their victims, who commit suicide. The suicides described earlier, and one not mentioned, were all attributed to the malefactions of the celebrated warlock, U'irU, whose death I shall relate farther on.	No evidence	x	na	Other witchcraft. Thorns, however, are not the only means by which the sorcerers destroy the objects of their malevolence. Some harbor a venomous snake in their body and send it against the enemy. Others sing to the spirit of the shaman log rotting on the riverbank, transforming it into a snake that will bite the enemy as he passes. Not all snake bites are caused by witchcraft, however; there are snakes that, without having any connection at all with shamans, bite anyone who passes. Again, sorcerers send the ghosts of ferocious animals against the persons whom they wish to eliminate, causing the victims to provoke bloody quarrels in which they are killed. Others, by a method I failed to learn, cause madness in their victims, who commit suicide. The suicides described earlier, and one not mentioned, were all attributed to the malefactions of the celebrated warlock, U'irU, whose death I shall relate farther on.	spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	unknown	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	both	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	 Others, by a method I failed to learn, cause madness in their victims, who commit suicide. 	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
1546	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tukano/Ticuna	He tried to establish himself in various places successively, but in no place could he remain, because of the immediate suspicion he aroused. Also, he behaved so imprudently that any person acquainted with the Tukuna could have predicted an early and disastrous end for him. Especially when befuddled with drink, he bragged, before everyone, of the knowledge of witchcraft he had acquired in Peru, and of his victims. The refusal of a cigarette was enough to make him threaten any person with death by sorcery. He even publicly claimed the credit for three suicides that had occurred a short time before in the vicinity of Belm when he lived in the igarap of that name.	No evidence	x	adult	Especially when befuddled with drink, he bragged, before everyone, of the knowledge of witchcraft he had acquired in Peru, and of his victims. The refusal of a cigarette was enough to make him threaten any person with death by sorcery. He even publicly claimed the credit for three suicides that had occurred a short time before in the vicinity of Belm when he lived in the igarap of that name.	spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	Especially when befuddled with drink, he bragged, before everyone, of the knowledge of witchcraft he had acquired in Peru, and of his victims. The refusal of a cigarette was enough to make him threaten any person with death by sorcery. He even publicly claimed the credit for three suicides that had occurred a short time before in the vicinity of Belm when he lived in the igarap of that name.	na	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	multiple social doma	male	na	No evidence	na		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	he behaved so imprudently that any person acquainted with the Tukuna could have predicted an early and disastrous end for him.	x	x	x	not stated	3	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
1546	syme	Cultural model	Tukano/Ticuna	He tried to establish himself in various places successively, but in no place could he remain, because of the immediate suspicion he aroused. Also, he behaved so imprudently that any person acquainted with the Tukuna could have predicted an early and disastrous end for him. Especially when befuddled with drink, he bragged, before everyone, of the knowledge of witchcraft he had acquired in Peru, and of his victims. The refusal of a cigarette was enough to make him threaten any person with death by sorcery. He even publicly claimed the credit for three suicides that had occurred a short time before in the vicinity of Belm when he lived in the igarap of that name.	No evidence	x	unknown	The refusal of a cigarette was enough to make him threaten any person with death by sorcery. He even publicly claimed the credit for three suicides that had occurred a short time before in the vicinity of Belm when he lived in the igarap of that name.	interpersonal confli,spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	The refusal of a cigarette was enough to make him threaten any person with death by sorcery. He even publicly claimed the credit for three suicides that had occurred a short time before in the vicinity of Belm when he lived in the igarap of that name.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	unknown	male	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	1	x	x	witchcraft	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	3,rate	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
1654	zgarfield	Case	Blackfoot	The ancient Peigans (?) had the medicine-lodge. There was a woman [who] had a side-husband [i.e. lover]. [One day] when these Peigans were having a happy time, that one, her side-husband, was looking at this medicine-lodge. There was a post, he stood up against it. And he laid hi face on it. The point on his face showed on the post. Theipans had done making the medicine-lodge. That young man went on a raid. It was not long, then he was killed. Then he was immediately known, that he was killed. These Peigans moved away from there. It was not long, then they moved around [turned back]. They camped near that medicine-lodge. That woman that had had a side-husband, was treated badly by her husband. She told him: You have treated me badly a very long tim. She called her side-husband. She told her husband: Now I am very glad that I may see my side-husband soon. Then she went after wood. Then she went to the medicine-lodge. She got near it. She sang. She sang words about her side-husband; Where is her I had bodily contact with? She then came up to that post where she had seen him before. There was a person already sitting inside of the medicine-lodge. By him she was heard, how she sang and how she talked and cried about her side-husband, the one that was killed. Then she went up on the post by which she had been crying. She sat on top of it. She tied a rope to [the post], and she put it around her neck. Then she jumped down. And that person got up and ran to her. When he got to her was already dead. Her husband over there was running [towards her], his wife was already dead. It was the other person that was telling about her, what she talked about and how she came to die. And that is a	No evidence	x	adult	She sang words about her side-husband; Where is her I had bodily contact with? She then came up to that post where she had seen him before. There was a person already sitting inside of the medicine-lodge. By him she was heard, how she sang and how she talked and cried about her side-husband, the one that was killed. Then she went up on the post by which she had been crying. She sat on top of it. She tied a rope to [the post], and she put it around her neck. Then she jumped down. And that person got up and ran to her. When he got to her was already dead.	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	Now I am very glad that I may see my side-husband soon.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		unknown	Now I am very glad that I may see my side-husband soon.	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence		first person
1654	syme	Case	Blackfoot	The ancient Peigans (?) had the medicine-lodge. There was a woman [who] had a side-husband [i.e. lover]. [One day] when these Peigans were having a happy time, that one, her side-husband, was looking at this medicine-lodge. There was a post, he stood up against it. And he laid hi face on it. The point on his face showed on the post. Theipans had done making the medicine-lodge. That young man went on a raid. It was not long, then he was killed. Then he was immediately known, that he was killed. These Peigans moved away from there. It was not long, then they moved around [turned back]. They camped near that medicine-lodge. That woman that had had a side-husband, was treated badly by her husband. She told him: You have treated me badly a very long tim. She called her side-husband. She told her husband: Now I am very glad that I may see my side-husband soon. Then she went after wood. Then she went to the medicine-lodge. She got near it. She sang. She sang words about her side-husband; Where is her I had bodily contact with? She then came up to that post where she had seen him before. There was a person already sitting inside of the medicine-lodge. By him she was heard, how she sang and how she talked and cried about her side-husband, the one that was killed. Then she went up on the post by which she had been crying. She sat on top of it. She tied a rope to [the post], and she put it around her neck. Then she jumped down. And that person got up and ran to her. When he got to her was already dead. Her husband over there was running [towards her], his wife was already dead. It was the other person that was telling about her, what she talked about and how she came to die. And that is a	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,unknown	 By him she was heard, how she sang and how she talked and cried about her side-husband, the one that was killed	interpersonal confli,death loved one,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Theipans had done making the medicine-lodge. That young man went on a raid. It was not long, then he was killed. Then he was immediately known, that he was killed. These Peigans moved away from there. It was not long, then they moved around [turned back]. They camped near that medicine-lodge. That woman that had had a side-husband, was treated badly by her husband. She told him: You have treated me badly a very long tim. She called her side-husband. She told her husband: Now I am very glad that I may see my side-husband soon. Then she went after wood. Then she went to the medicine-lodge. She got near it. She sang. She sang words about her side-husband; Where is her I had bodily contact with? She then came up to that post where she had seen him before. There was a person already sitting inside of the medicine-lodge. By him she was heard, how she sang and how she talked and cried about her side-husband, the one that was killed. Then she went up on the post by which she had been crying. She sat on top of it. She tied a rope to [the post], and she put it around her neck. Then she jumped down. And that person got up and ran to her. When he got to her was already dead. Her husband over there was running [towards her], his wife was already dead. It was the other person that was telling about her, what she talked about and how she came to die.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	husband	male	na	No evidence	female	paramour 	Evidence for		war,no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	affair	4	x	x	x	unknown	 Then she went up on the post by which she had been crying. 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	Her husband over there was running [towards her], his wife was already dead. 	x	Evidence for	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	firsthand
1655	zgarfield	Case	Blackfoot	"The terrified winner begged for his life but the enraged (word?) killed him with his knife. Then the loser turned to his woman and lifted the buffalo robe cover. She too was dead. Covering herself with the robe, she had grabbed a knife in both her hands and pressed it down into her heart... ""It is my fault"", he said, ""My fault, my fault!"" But you shall not go alone. I am with you yet."" And before any of us could interfere, he plunged the knife he still held into his own bosom, and fell over beside her, li-blood streaming from his mouth."	No evidence	x	adult	" She too was dead. Covering herself with the robe, she had grabbed a knife in both her hands and pressed it down into her heart... ""It is my fault"", he said, ""My fault, my fault!"" But you shall not go alone. I am with you yet."" And before any of us could interfere, he plunged the knife he still held into his own bosom, and fell over beside her, li-blood streaming from his mouth.
"	death loved one	No evidence	na	Evidence for	" She too was dead. Covering herself with the robe, she had grabbed a knife in both her hands and pressed it down into her heart... ""It is my fault"", he said, ""My fault, my fault!"" But you shall not go alone. I am with you yet."" And before any of us could interfere, he plunged the knife he still held into his own bosom, and fell over beside her, li-blood streaming from his mouth.
"	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	stabbing	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	social partners	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	death of a loved one	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	no	No evidence		firsthand
1655	syme	Case	Blackfoot	"The terrified winner begged for his life but the enraged (word?) killed him with his knife. Then the loser turned to his woman and lifted the buffalo robe cover. She too was dead. Covering herself with the robe, she had grabbed a knife in both her hands and pressed it down into her heart... ""It is my fault"", he said, ""My fault, my fault!"" But you shall not go alone. I am with you yet."" And before any of us could interfere, he plunged the knife he still held into his own bosom, and fell over beside her, li-blood streaming from his mouth."	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	"The terrified winner begged for his life but the enraged (word?) killed him with his knife. Then the loser turned to his woman and lifted the buffalo robe cover. She too was dead. Covering herself with the robe, she had grabbed a knife in both her hands and pressed it down into her heart... ""It is my fault"", he said, ""My fault, my fault!"" But you shall not go alone. I am with you yet."" And before any of us could interfere, he plunged the knife he still held into his own bosom, and fell over beside her, li-blood streaming from his mouth."	interpersonal confli,death loved one,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"The terrified winner begged for his life but the enraged (word?) killed him with his knife. Then the loser turned to his woman and lifted the buffalo robe cover. She too was dead. Covering herself with the robe, she had grabbed a knife in both her hands and pressed it down into her heart... ""It is my fault"", he said, ""My fault, my fault!"" But you shall not go alone. I am with you yet."" And before any of us could interfere, he plunged the knife he still held into his own bosom, and fell over beside her, li-blood streaming from his mouth."	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	Evidence against	stabbing	"But you shall not go alone. I am with you yet."" 
follow loved one"	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	adult,unknown	competitor 	male	na	Evidence for	male	wife	Evidence against		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x	gambling	unknown	"""It is my fault"", he said, ""My fault, my fault!"" "	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	public	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	secondhand
1788	zgarfield	Cultural model	Shluh	Mardach expresses the menacing despair into which iniquities plunges a person, driving him to a serious act: vengeance, malediction, suicide.	No evidence	x	adult	Mardach expresses the menacing despair into which iniquities plunges a person, driving him to a serious act: vengeance, malediction, suicide.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	depression	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	 menacing despair 	Mardach expresses the menacing despair into which iniquities plunges a person, driving him to a serious act: vengeance, malediction, suicide.	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		secondhand
1788	syme	Cultural model	Shluh	Mardach expresses the menacing despair into which iniquities plunges a person, driving him to a serious act: vengeance, malediction, suicide.	No evidence	x	unknown	Mardach expresses the menacing despair into which iniquities plunges a person, driving him to a serious act: vengeance, malediction, suicide.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	emic	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	unknown	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	assoc. vengeance, assoc. witchraft	unknown	Mardach expresses the menacing despair into which iniquities plunges a person, driving him to a serious act: vengeance, malediction, suicide.	Mardach expresses the menacing despair into which iniquities plunges a person, driving him to a serious act: vengeance, malediction, suicide.	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
1790	zgarfield	Case	Libyan Bedouin	The pool Tnsarr tabtani, being strongly possessed of a spirit, drown a girl every four or five years. Some people say that it take a human life every year. Shortly before my visit it had claimed its latest victim, a girl of about twelve. She was betrothed to a wealthy young man, but her mother had married a soldier, and he seduced her. When her mother found her pregnant, she told her to go drown herself. The little girl loaded herself with heavy ornaments and did so--in Tnsarr tabtani.	Evidence for	x	child	"She was betrothed to a wealthy young man, but her mother had married a soldier, and he seduced her. When her mother found her pregnant, she told her to go drown herself. The little girl loaded herself with heavy ornaments and did so--in Tnsarr tabtani.
"	interpersonal confli	Evidence for	sexual abuse	Evidence for	"She was betrothed to a wealthy young man, but her mother had married a soldier, and he seduced her. When her mother found her pregnant, she told her to go drown herself. The little girl loaded herself with heavy ornaments and did so--in Tnsarr tabtani.
"	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	drowning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	female	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	12	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		secondhand
1790	syme	Case	Libyan Bedouin	The pool Tnsarr tabtani, being strongly possessed of a spirit, drown a girl every four or five years. Some people say that it take a human life every year. Shortly before my visit it had claimed its latest victim, a girl of about twelve. She was betrothed to a wealthy young man, but her mother had married a soldier, and he seduced her. When her mother found her pregnant, she told her to go drown herself. The little girl loaded herself with heavy ornaments and did so--in Tnsarr tabtani.	Evidence for	x	young adult	The pool Tnsarr tabtani, being strongly possessed of a spirit, drown a girl every four or five years. Some people say that it take a human life every year. Shortly before my visit it had claimed its latest victim, a girl of about twelve. She was betrothed to a wealthy young man, but her mother had married a soldier, and he seduced her. When her mother found her pregnant, she told her to go drown herself. The little girl loaded herself with heavy ornaments and did so--in Tnsarr tabtani.	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo,rejection,spirit attack,other	Evidence for	sexual abuse	Evidence for	The pool Tnsarr tabtani, being strongly possessed of a spirit, drown a girl every four or five years. Some people say that it take a human life every year. Shortly before my visit it had claimed its latest victim, a girl of about twelve. She was betrothed to a wealthy young man, but her mother had married a soldier, and he seduced her. When her mother found her pregnant, she told her to go drown herself. The little girl loaded herself with heavy ornaments and did so--in Tnsarr tabtani.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	drowning	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	mother	female	na	Evidence for	female	x	Evidence for		sexual abuse	completion	12	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	The pool Tnsarr tabtani, being strongly possessed of a spirit, drown a girl every four or five years. Some people say that it take a human life every year. Shortly before my visit it had claimed its latest victim, a girl of about twelve. She was betrothed to a wealthy young man, but her mother had married a soldier, and he seduced her. When her mother found her pregnant, she told her to go drown herself. The little girl loaded herself with heavy ornaments and did so--in Tnsarr tabtani.	x	pregnancy	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	na
1808	zgarfield	Case	Tiv	"For the old men the most galling aspect of the matter is that when exchange marriage was forbidden the young girls would have nothing to do with them. Under the old system an elder had an ing'l could always marry a young girl, however senile he might be, even though he were a leper with no hands or feet; no girl would dare to refuse him. If another man were attracted by his ing'l he would take his own and give her to the old man by force, in order to make an exchange. The girl had to go with the old man, sorrowfully carrying his goat-skin bag. If she ran back to her home her owner caught her and beat her, then bound her and brought her back to the elder. The old man was pleased, and grinned till he showed his blackened molars. 'Wherever you go,' he told her, 'you will be brought back here to me; go stop worrying, and settle down as my wife.' The girl fretted, till she wished the earth might swallow her. Some women even stabbed themselves to death when they were given to an old man against their will; but, in spite of all, the Tiv did not care."""	No evidence	x	young adult	"Some women even stabbed themselves to death when they were given to an old man against their will; but, in spite of all, the Tiv did not care."""	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Some women even stabbed themselves to death when they were given to an old man against their will; but, in spite of all, the Tiv did not care."""	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	stabbing	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	multiple social doma	both	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	"Some women even stabbed themselves to death when they were given to an old man against their will; but, in spite of all, the Tiv did not care."""	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	na	unknown	No evidence		na
1808	syme	Case	Tiv	"For the old men the most galling aspect of the matter is that when exchange marriage was forbidden the young girls would have nothing to do with them. Under the old system an elder had an ing'l could always marry a young girl, however senile he might be, even though he were a leper with no hands or feet; no girl would dare to refuse him. If another man were attracted by his ing'l he would take his own and give her to the old man by force, in order to make an exchange. The girl had to go with the old man, sorrowfully carrying his goat-skin bag. If she ran back to her home her owner caught her and beat her, then bound her and brought her back to the elder. The old man was pleased, and grinned till he showed his blackened molars. 'Wherever you go,' he told her, 'you will be brought back here to me; go stop worrying, and settle down as my wife.' The girl fretted, till she wished the earth might swallow her. Some women even stabbed themselves to death when they were given to an old man against their will; but, in spite of all, the Tiv did not care."""		x	young adult	"For the old men the most galling aspect of the matter is that when exchange marriage was forbidden the young girls would have nothing to do with them. Under the old system an elder had an ing'l could always marry a young girl, however senile he might be, even though he were a leper with no hands or feet; no girl would dare to refuse him. If another man were attracted by his ing'l he would take his own and give her to the old man by force, in order to make an exchange. The girl had to go with the old man, sorrowfully carrying his goat-skin bag. If she ran back to her home her owner caught her and beat her, then bound her and brought her back to the elder. The old man was pleased, and grinned till he showed his blackened molars. 'Wherever you go,' he told her, 'you will be brought back here to me; go stop worrying, and settle down as my wife.' The girl fretted, till she wished the earth might swallow her. Some women even stabbed themselves to death when they were given to an old man against their will; but, in spite of all, the Tiv did not care."""	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"For the old men the most galling aspect of the matter is that when exchange marriage was forbidden the young girls would have nothing to do with them. Under the old system an elder had an ing'l could always marry a young girl, however senile he might be, even though he were a leper with no hands or feet; no girl would dare to refuse him. If another man were attracted by his ing'l he would take his own and give her to the old man by force, in order to make an exchange. The girl had to go with the old man, sorrowfully carrying his goat-skin bag. If she ran back to her home her owner caught her and beat her, then bound her and brought her back to the elder. The old man was pleased, and grinned till he showed his blackened molars. 'Wherever you go,' he told her, 'you will be brought back here to me; go stop worrying, and settle down as my wife.' The girl fretted, till she wished the earth might swallow her. Some women even stabbed themselves to death when they were given to an old man against their will; but, in spite of all, the Tiv did not care."""	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	stabbing	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	elder	husband	male	na	No evidence	female	x	Evidence against		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	run away	6	x	x	x	no	sorrow	"The girl had to go with the old man, sorrowfully carrying his goat-skin bag. If she ran back to her home her owner caught her and beat her, then bound her and brought her back to the elder. The old man was pleased, and grinned till he showed his blackened molars. 'Wherever you go,' he told her, 'you will be brought back here to me; go stop worrying, and settle down as my wife.' The girl fretted, till she wished the earth might swallow her. Some women even stabbed themselves to death when they were given to an old man against their will; but, in spite of all, the Tiv did not care."""	x	x	not stated	unknown,rate	x	"in spite of all, the Tiv did not care."""	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	low,unknown	na
1809	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tiv	"""...When they brought him in, the whiteman asked him where was the imborivungu for which he had killed the man. When he began to deny it, the District Officer violently unbraided him and accused him of hiding the truth, until finally he admitted his guilt and asked to be allowed to go and fetch it. In some cases, when the man arrived at this home he would ask to be allowed to go into his house, and when he found nothing which he could give up, took an arrow and stabbed himself, saying that death was better than so much undeserved misery. Another would enter his house and set it alight thinking to be burnt to death inside, and had to be dragged out by force."""	No evidence	x	adult	When he began to deny it, the District Officer violently unbraided him and accused him of hiding the truth, until finally he admitted his guilt and asked to be allowed to go and fetch it. In some cases, when the man arrived at this home he would ask to be allowed to go into his house, and when he found nothing which he could give up, took an arrow and stabbed himself, saying that death was better than so much undeserved misery. 	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	When he began to deny it, the District Officer violently unbraided him and accused him of hiding the truth, until finally he admitted his guilt and asked to be allowed to go and fetch it. In some cases, when the man arrived at this home he would ask to be allowed to go into his house, and when he found nothing which he could give up, took an arrow and stabbed himself, saying that death was better than so much undeserved misery. 	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	stabbing	death was better than so much undeserved misery	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	political power	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	misery	death was better than so much undeserved misery	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
1809	syme	Cultural model	Tiv	"""...When they brought him in, the whiteman asked him where was the imborivungu for which he had killed the man. When he began to deny it, the District Officer violently unbraided him and accused him of hiding the truth, until finally he admitted his guilt and asked to be allowed to go and fetch it. In some cases, when the man arrived at this home he would ask to be allowed to go into his house, and when he found nothing which he could give up, took an arrow and stabbed himself, saying that death was better than so much undeserved misery. Another would enter his house and set it alight thinking to be burnt to death inside, and had to be dragged out by force."""	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	"""...When they brought him in, the whiteman asked him where was the imborivungu for which he had killed the man. "	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	burning,stabbing	"saying that death was better than so much undeserved misery. Another would enter his house and set it alight thinking to be burnt to death inside, and had to be dragged out by force."""	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	commit homicide	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	na
1816	zgarfield	Case	Akan	It appeared that a farmer named Kwabina Damua had two wives and one daughter, and being of a violent disposition, treated his household badly. His mother, desirous to avenge the injuries of her daughters-in-law and to punish her son for his domestic tyranny pronounced over Kwabina the curse of Katewir, a curse whose effects are partly a species of boycotting, and partly the results of a belief in a personal Nemesis, who brings the unhappy man, over whom the curse is pronounced , into a state of frenzy. The use of this oath is punishable under British law on the Gold Coast by fine or imprisonment. The immediate consequences of the taking of the oath by the mother against her son were that he, after a declaration that he had to obey Katwir, hacked his two wives and daughter into pieces and blew his own brains out. Such a yoke has custom fortified by antiquity and by the terrors of ignorance imposed on this rude people, that life is sacrificed and names are unmentioned in deference to usages of which the savage even in sceptic but which he yet fears to break.	No evidence	x	adult	 It appeared that a farmer named Kwabina Damua had two wives and one daughter, and being of a violent disposition, treated his household badly. His mother, desirous to avenge the injuries of her daughters-in-law and to punish her son for his domestic tyranny pronounced over Kwabina the curse of Katewir, a curse whose effects are partly a species of boycotting, and partly the results of a belief in a personal Nemesis, who brings the unhappy man, over whom the curse is pronounced , into a state of frenzy. The use of this oath is punishable under British law on the Gold Coast by fine or imprisonment. The immediate consequences of the taking of the oath by the mother against her son were that he, after a declaration that he had to obey Katwir, hacked his two wives and daughter into pieces and blew his own brains out. 	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 It appeared that a farmer named Kwabina Damua had two wives and one daughter, and being of a violent disposition, treated his household badly. His mother, desirous to avenge the injuries of her daughters-in-law and to punish her son for his domestic tyranny pronounced over Kwabina the curse of Katewir, a curse whose effects are partly a species of boycotting, and partly the results of a belief in a personal Nemesis, who brings the unhappy man, over whom the curse is pronounced , into a state of frenzy. The use of this oath is punishable under British law on the Gold Coast by fine or imprisonment. The immediate consequences of the taking of the oath by the mother against her son were that he, after a declaration that he had to obey Katwir, hacked his two wives and daughter into pieces and blew his own brains out. 	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	shooting	The immediate consequences of the taking of the oath by the mother against her son were that he, after a declaration that he had to obey Katwir, hacked his two wives and daughter into pieces and blew his own brains out.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	yes	Evidence against		firsthand
1816	syme	Case	Akan	It appeared that a farmer named Kwabina Damua had two wives and one daughter, and being of a violent disposition, treated his household badly. His mother, desirous to avenge the injuries of her daughters-in-law and to punish her son for his domestic tyranny pronounced over Kwabina the curse of Katewir, a curse whose effects are partly a species of boycotting, and partly the results of a belief in a personal Nemesis, who brings the unhappy man, over whom the curse is pronounced , into a state of frenzy. The use of this oath is punishable under British law on the Gold Coast by fine or imprisonment. The immediate consequences of the taking of the oath by the mother against her son were that he, after a declaration that he had to obey Katwir, hacked his two wives and daughter into pieces and blew his own brains out. Such a yoke has custom fortified by antiquity and by the terrors of ignorance imposed on this rude people, that life is sacrificed and names are unmentioned in deference to usages of which the savage even in sceptic but which he yet fears to break.	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	 It appeared that a farmer named Kwabina Damua had two wives and one daughter, and being of a violent disposition, treated his household badly. His mother, desirous to avenge the injuries of her daughters-in-law and to punish her son for his domestic tyranny pronounced over Kwabina the curse of Katewir, a curse whose effects are partly a species of boycotting, and partly the results of a belief in a personal Nemesis, who brings the unhappy man, over whom the curse is pronounced , into a state of frenzy. The use of this oath is punishable under British law on the Gold Coast by fine or imprisonment. The immediate consequences of the taking of the oath by the mother against her son were that he, after a declaration that he had to obey Katwir, hacked his two wives and daughter into pieces and blew his own brains out. Such a yoke has custom fortified by antiquity and by the terrors of ignorance imposed on this rude people, that life is sacrificed and names are unmentioned in deference to usages of which the savage even in sceptic but which he yet fears to break.	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo,spirit attack	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 It appeared that a farmer named Kwabina Damua had two wives and one daughter, and being of a violent disposition, treated his household badly. His mother, desirous to avenge the injuries of her daughters-in-law and to punish her son for his domestic tyranny pronounced over Kwabina the curse of Katewir, a curse whose effects are partly a species of boycotting, and partly the results of a belief in a personal Nemesis, who brings the unhappy man, over whom the curse is pronounced , into a state of frenzy. The use of this oath is punishable under British law on the Gold Coast by fine or imprisonment. The immediate consequences of the taking of the oath by the mother against her son were that he, after a declaration that he had to obey Katwir, hacked his two wives and daughter into pieces and blew his own brains out. Such a yoke has custom fortified by antiquity and by the terrors of ignorance imposed on this rude people, that life is sacrificed and names are unmentioned in deference to usages of which the savage even in sceptic but which he yet fears to break.	unknown	na	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	unknown	Evidence against	shooting	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	elder	mother	female	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence for		perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	murdered wives and daughter	4	x	x	polygyny, commit homicide, witchcraft	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	curse puts a victim into a state of frenzy	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence for	unknown	unknown
1862	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chuuk	The first and predominant pattern, anger suicides, is found in 120 cases, or 81% of all suicides in which there is adequate information to judge the motivation of the victim (see Table 4). The victim, usually a young Trukese male, hangs himself after he is scolded, refused a request, or otherwise rebuffed by parents or an older sibling (Hezel 1984). So common is this pattern that Trukese, upon hearing of a recent suicide, will invariably ask what the victim was angry about. The introverted display of anger, far from being pathological, is an ordinary enough feature in a culture that prohibits the venting of strong negative feelings towards parents and older kin. Since a Trukese, bound as he is by the strong respect code of his society, cannot manifest directly his anger at family members who are his superior in age and status, he acts out this anger upon himself. Suicide is not the only way of doing this; a young man may wound himself or refuse to eat in order to convey the same message. It might be noted that those cases (10 in all) in which the victim commits suicide because of anger at a spouse are more difficult to explain in these terms, for direct and sometimes violent displays of anger at wives are commonplace and expected occurrences in Truk. Nonetheless, there are relatively rare occasions on which a Trukese has employed an introverted method of displaying anger towards a spouse or a younger brother or other social inferior rather than the culturally sanctioned and more direct means of expressing his feelings. There is a common strand running through the first two patterns that requires some elucidation. When faced with a conflict-laden situation, especially within the close circles of kin, Trukese will frequently resort to a strategy of withdrawal rather than confrontational tactics. This coping mechanism, which is in keeping with similar tendencies throughout Micronesia and Polynesia, is sometimes referred to as amwunumwun by Trukese. Amwunumwun means to distance oneself from others as a way of giving vent to strong feelings, whether anger or shame, when it is culturally inappropriate to display these feelings more directly. Embracing an arsenal of more specific behaviors that range from refusing to speak or eat to taking ones own life, amwunumwun represents a way of manifesting anger or other negative emotions through some form of self-debasement (Rubinstein 1984; Hezel 1984). The act of amwunumwun is intended not principally to inflict revenge, although there is sometimes an element of this motivation in the act, but to dramatize ones sorrows, frustration and shame in the hope that the present unhappy situation will somehow be remedied. When the suicide victim performs his act of amwunumwun, therefore, it is at least partially in the hope that the sad state into which his relationship with his family has fallen might be restored to what it once was or should have been, even if this occurs on the other side of the grave. Young males in Truk, as we have seen, are at particularly high risk for suicide. If present rates continue, Rubinstein (1985:92) points out, one out of every 40 Trukese males will die by his own hand between their 15th and 25th birthdays. It is no coincidence that this same sex/age group shows the highest incidence of alcohol-related problems, arrests and imprisonment, and even incidence of serious mental illness (Hezel 1985b). In an age-ranked society such as Truk, the young are especially vulnerable, perhaps even more so than the aged are in a society like the U.S. that idolizes youth. In Truk the young have not yet achieved a status of respect in the community and will not do so until, often well into their 30s, they have begun to raise a family and demonstrate the competence and stability that are so prized in the culture. A third feature is the cultural constraint on the expression of feelings, especially negative feelings, that has been mentioned previously. In Truk, as in many other Pacific societies, elaborate social structures have been erected so as to minimize the outbreaks of hostility and thus maintain unbroken peace in a community that is usually quite small. Yet, the same option that minimizes the risk of open conflict also reduces the availability of defense mechanisms and so leaves the person more vulnerable to injuries from others (Howard 1979:137). While restrictions against verbalizing anger towards ones social superiors undoubtedly reduce the danger of explosive arguments, they also deprive the young man of a method of venting and diffusing his anger. The search by young men for avenues of self-expression underlies much of their drunken behavior as well as their readiness to utilize suicide as a means of acting out their anger and shame (Hezel 1981:17; Marshall 1979:109-111). Still another feature, one alluded to but not explicitly treated above, is the thirst for recognition among the young. This is a particularly strong need for those who perceive their affiliation with their family group as tenuous and marginal, whether because of their adoptive status or because they are not contributing to the wellbeing of the family through normal chores. The form of recognition they seek is not effusive compliments, something alien to Trukese ways, but an acknowledgement of their importance in more indirect ways, particularly a fair share in the allotment of food and family resources. This is an extremely sensitive issue for young Trukese today as in the past. Yet, as the demands upon young men to assist in food preparation and other tasks diminish, so too does their sense of their own importance to their family. Suicide clearly affords them a means of recognition, as victims have often indicated before their death. Some have alluded with a note of triumph to the funeral feast that would be held in their honor as if they expected to achieve in death the recognition that they had been denied in life. At least three others, all of them adopted sons, have timed their deaths to coincide with the anniversary of another death in their adoptive family, no doubt as a way of expressing their desire for full assimilation into the family and ensuring that the anniversary of their own death would be a major family event in years to come. One young man even left his footprint and signature in wet cement on the floor of the family meeting house to memorialize himself and his deed. The attraction that such a dramatic form of recognition holds for young Trukese is attested by one 13-year-old boy who exclaimed while witnessing the funeral of a suicide victim not much older than himself, How nice it would be to have all those people crying and making a fuss over me! (Hezel 1985a:120).	No evidence	x	young adult	The victim, usually a young Trukese male, hangs himself after he is scolded, refused a request, or otherwise rebuffed by parents or an older sibling 	interpersonal confli,rejection	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The victim, usually a young Trukese male, hangs himself after he is scolded, refused a request, or otherwise rebuffed by parents or an older sibling 	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	When the suicide victim performs his act of amwunumwun, therefore, it is at least partially in the hope that the sad state into which his relationship with his family has fallen might be restored to what it once was or should have been, even if this occurs on the other side of the grave. 	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	ado_young_adult,adult	kin	unknown	na	No evidence	male		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	angry,  introverted display of anger	x	x	x		1	x		x	No evidence	unknown		No evidence		firsthand
1862	syme	Cultural model	Chuuk	The first and predominant pattern, anger suicides, is found in 120 cases, or 81% of all suicides in which there is adequate information to judge the motivation of the victim (see Table 4). The victim, usually a young Trukese male, hangs himself after he is scolded, refused a request, or otherwise rebuffed by parents or an older sibling (Hezel 1984). So common is this pattern that Trukese, upon hearing of a recent suicide, will invariably ask what the victim was angry about. The introverted display of anger, far from being pathological, is an ordinary enough feature in a culture that prohibits the venting of strong negative feelings towards parents and older kin. Since a Trukese, bound as he is by the strong respect code of his society, cannot manifest directly his anger at family members who are his superior in age and status, he acts out this anger upon himself. Suicide is not the only way of doing this; a young man may wound himself or refuse to eat in order to convey the same message. It might be noted that those cases (10 in all) in which the victim commits suicide because of anger at a spouse are more difficult to explain in these terms, for direct and sometimes violent displays of anger at wives are commonplace and expected occurrences in Truk. Nonetheless, there are relatively rare occasions on which a Trukese has employed an introverted method of displaying anger towards a spouse or a younger brother or other social inferior rather than the culturally sanctioned and more direct means of expressing his feelings. There is a common strand running through the first two patterns that requires some elucidation. When faced with a conflict-laden situation, especially within the close circles of kin, Trukese will frequently resort to a strategy of withdrawal rather than confrontational tactics. This coping mechanism, which is in keeping with similar tendencies throughout Micronesia and Polynesia, is sometimes referred to as amwunumwun by Trukese. Amwunumwun means to distance oneself from others as a way of giving vent to strong feelings, whether anger or shame, when it is culturally inappropriate to display these feelings more directly. Embracing an arsenal of more specific behaviors that range from refusing to speak or eat to taking ones own life, amwunumwun represents a way of manifesting anger or other negative emotions through some form of self-debasement (Rubinstein 1984; Hezel 1984). The act of amwunumwun is intended not principally to inflict revenge, although there is sometimes an element of this motivation in the act, but to dramatize ones sorrows, frustration and shame in the hope that the present unhappy situation will somehow be remedied. When the suicide victim performs his act of amwunumwun, therefore, it is at least partially in the hope that the sad state into which his relationship with his family has fallen might be restored to what it once was or should have been, even if this occurs on the other side of the grave. Young males in Truk, as we have seen, are at particularly high risk for suicide. If present rates continue, Rubinstein (1985:92) points out, one out of every 40 Trukese males will die by his own hand between their 15th and 25th birthdays. It is no coincidence that this same sex/age group shows the highest incidence of alcohol-related problems, arrests and imprisonment, and even incidence of serious mental illness (Hezel 1985b). In an age-ranked society such as Truk, the young are especially vulnerable, perhaps even more so than the aged are in a society like the U.S. that idolizes youth. In Truk the young have not yet achieved a status of respect in the community and will not do so until, often well into their 30s, they have begun to raise a family and demonstrate the competence and stability that are so prized in the culture. A third feature is the cultural constraint on the expression of feelings, especially negative feelings, that has been mentioned previously. In Truk, as in many other Pacific societies, elaborate social structures have been erected so as to minimize the outbreaks of hostility and thus maintain unbroken peace in a community that is usually quite small. Yet, the same option that minimizes the risk of open conflict also reduces the availability of defense mechanisms and so leaves the person more vulnerable to injuries from others (Howard 1979:137). While restrictions against verbalizing anger towards ones social superiors undoubtedly reduce the danger of explosive arguments, they also deprive the young man of a method of venting and diffusing his anger. The search by young men for avenues of self-expression underlies much of their drunken behavior as well as their readiness to utilize suicide as a means of acting out their anger and shame (Hezel 1981:17; Marshall 1979:109-111). Still another feature, one alluded to but not explicitly treated above, is the thirst for recognition among the young. This is a particularly strong need for those who perceive their affiliation with their family group as tenuous and marginal, whether because of their adoptive status or because they are not contributing to the wellbeing of the family through normal chores. The form of recognition they seek is not effusive compliments, something alien to Trukese ways, but an acknowledgement of their importance in more indirect ways, particularly a fair share in the allotment of food and family resources. This is an extremely sensitive issue for young Trukese today as in the past. Yet, as the demands upon young men to assist in food preparation and other tasks diminish, so too does their sense of their own importance to their family. Suicide clearly affords them a means of recognition, as victims have often indicated before their death. Some have alluded with a note of triumph to the funeral feast that would be held in their honor as if they expected to achieve in death the recognition that they had been denied in life. At least three others, all of them adopted sons, have timed their deaths to coincide with the anniversary of another death in their adoptive family, no doubt as a way of expressing their desire for full assimilation into the family and ensuring that the anniversary of their own death would be a major family event in years to come. One young man even left his footprint and signature in wet cement on the floor of the family meeting house to memorialize himself and his deed. The attraction that such a dramatic form of recognition holds for young Trukese is attested by one 13-year-old boy who exclaimed while witnessing the funeral of a suicide victim not much older than himself, How nice it would be to have all those people crying and making a fuss over me! (Hezel 1985a:120).	No evidence	x	young adult	The introverted display of anger, far from being pathological, is an ordinary enough feature in a culture that prohibits the venting of strong negative feelings towards parents and older kin.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The introverted display of anger, far from being pathological, is an ordinary enough feature in a culture that prohibits the venting of strong negative feelings towards parents and older kin.	pityingly,unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	"Nonetheless, there are relatively rare occasions on which a Trukese has employed an introverted method of displaying anger towards a spouse or a younger brother or other social inferior rather than the culturally sanctioned and more direct means of expressing his feelings. 
When the suicide victim performs his act of amwunumwun, therefore, it is at least partially in the hope that the sad state into which his relationship with his family has fallen might be restored to what it once was or should have been, even if this occurs on the other side of the grave. Still another feature, one alluded to but not explicitly treated above, is the thirst for recognition among the young. This is a particularly strong need for those who perceive their affiliation with their family group as tenuous and marginal, whether because of their adoptive status or because they are not contributing to the wellbeing of the family through normal chores. The form of recognition they seek is not effusive compliments, something alien to Trukese ways, but an acknowledgement of their importance in more indirect ways, particularly a fair share in the allotment of food and family resources. This is an extremely sensitive issue for young Trukese today as in the past. Yet, as the demands upon young men to assist in food preparation and other tasks diminish, so too does their sense of their own importance to their family. Suicide clearly affords them a means of recognition, as victims have often indicated before their death. Some have alluded with a note of triumph to the funeral feast that would be held in their honor as if they expected to achieve in death the recognition that they had been denied in life."	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	parents	both	na	Evidence for	more often men	parents	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	assoc. alcoholism,assoc. dsh,status seeking	no	anger, shame	x	x	x	no	1	x	 One young man even left his footprint and signature in wet cement on the floor of the family meeting house to memorialize himself and his deed. The attraction that such a dramatic form of recognition holds for young Trukese is attested by one 13-year-old boy who exclaimed while witnessing the funeral of a suicide victim not much older than himself, How nice it would be to have all those people crying and making a fuss over me! (Hezel 1985a:120).	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence for	low	unknown
1863	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chuuk	Suicide among young men in Truk is another serious problem that has developed in recent years (Hezel 1984, 1987a; Rubinstein 1983, 1987). Although we cannot say being drunk causes young men to take their own lives in Truk, nevertheless, most such suicides are drunk at the time of the act. Sometimes, as well, the apparent precipitating incident leading a young man to suicide involves an issue around alcohol. For example, a suicide may have just been scolded by a close relative for drinking or for misdeeds committed while drunk or he may have been refused money with which to purchase more liquor. No evidence exists that prohibition has had any direct influence on this particular kind of violent behavior in Truk.	No evidence	x	adult	Although we cannot say being drunk causes young men to take their own lives in Truk, nevertheless, most such suicides are drunk at the time of the act. Sometimes, as well, the apparent precipitating incident leading a young man to suicide involves an issue around alcohol.	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	Although we cannot say being drunk causes young men to take their own lives in Truk, nevertheless, most such suicides are drunk at the time of the act. Sometimes, as well, the apparent precipitating incident leading a young man to suicide involves an issue around alcohol.		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	no	No evidence		first person
1863	syme	Cultural model	Chuuk	Suicide among young men in Truk is another serious problem that has developed in recent years (Hezel 1984, 1987a; Rubinstein 1983, 1987). Although we cannot say being drunk causes young men to take their own lives in Truk, nevertheless, most such suicides are drunk at the time of the act. Sometimes, as well, the apparent precipitating incident leading a young man to suicide involves an issue around alcohol. For example, a suicide may have just been scolded by a close relative for drinking or for misdeeds committed while drunk or he may have been refused money with which to purchase more liquor. No evidence exists that prohibition has had any direct influence on this particular kind of violent behavior in Truk.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult	Suicide among young men in Truk is another serious problem that has developed in recent years (Hezel 1984, 1987a; Rubinstein 1983, 1987). Although we cannot say being drunk causes young men to take their own lives in Truk, nevertheless, most such suicides are drunk at the time of the act. Sometimes, as well, the apparent precipitating incident leading a young man to suicide involves an issue around alcohol. For example, a suicide may have just been scolded by a close relative for drinking or for misdeeds committed while drunk or he may have been refused money with which to purchase more liquor. No evidence exists that prohibition has had any direct influence on this particular kind of violent behavior in Truk.	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Suicide among young men in Truk is another serious problem that has developed in recent years (Hezel 1984, 1987a; Rubinstein 1983, 1987). Although we cannot say being drunk causes young men to take their own lives in Truk, nevertheless, most such suicides are drunk at the time of the act. Sometimes, as well, the apparent precipitating incident leading a young man to suicide involves an issue around alcohol. For example, a suicide may have just been scolded by a close relative for drinking or for misdeeds committed while drunk or he may have been refused money with which to purchase more liquor. No evidence exists that prohibition has had any direct influence on this particular kind of violent behavior in Truk.	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	substance abuse	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	adult,elder	kin	unknown	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	alcohol abuse	x	x	x	drunk at time	unknown	Sx	x	x	x	not stated	1	alcohol abuse	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence for	unknown	na
1864	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chuuk	Suicide is today the leading cause of death among Micronesians age 15 to 30. Hezel (1976) observes that these deaths follow a quite regular pattern all over the Trust Territory. Most victims are young males from districts in eastern Micronesia (especially Truk and the Marshalls) who have just had an emotional argument with a close relative or friend. Most had been drinking alcoholic beverages before committing suicide, which is usually done by hanging. By virtue of suffering over one half of all suicides in the Trust Territory from 1975 to 1976, Truk District has acquired the unenviable title of the suicide capital of Micronesia (Hezel 1976:9). Hezel argues that neither the drinking nor the family quarrel that normally precedes these suicides can explain them. Rather he suggests that we view them as acts of vengeance against those who are the objects of the victims anger. In [Page 79] Greater Trukese Society, at least, consumption of alcohol bolsters the young mans courage to do deeds of bravery (including killing himself), but suicide itself is an act of aggression against close kinsmen who have somehow pushed the victim over the brink of despair by rejecting him in an emotional confrontation. Under such circumstances, his only way for vengeance is to kill himself and let his tormentors suffer guilt thereafter. The case described below illustrates this. 7	No evidence	x	young adult	Most victims are young males from districts in eastern Micronesia (especially Truk and the Marshalls) who have just had an emotional argument with a close relative or friend. 	interpersonal confli,rejection	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Most victims are young males from districts in eastern Micronesia (especially Truk and the Marshalls) who have just had an emotional argument with a close relative or friend. 	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na		No evidence	hanging	Rather he suggests that we view them as acts of vengeance against those who are the objects of the victims anger. 	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	kin	unknown	na	No evidence	male		Evidence for	Evidence for	other	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	Most had been drinking alcoholic beverages before committing suicide		x	x		na	anger despair	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	Evidence against		secondhand
1864	syme	Cultural model	Chuuk	Suicide is today the leading cause of death among Micronesians age 15 to 30. Hezel (1976) observes that these deaths follow a quite regular pattern all over the Trust Territory. Most victims are young males from districts in eastern Micronesia (especially Truk and the Marshalls) who have just had an emotional argument with a close relative or friend. Most had been drinking alcoholic beverages before committing suicide, which is usually done by hanging. By virtue of suffering over one half of all suicides in the Trust Territory from 1975 to 1976, Truk District has acquired the unenviable title of the suicide capital of Micronesia (Hezel 1976:9). Hezel argues that neither the drinking nor the family quarrel that normally precedes these suicides can explain them. Rather he suggests that we view them as acts of vengeance against those who are the objects of the victims anger. In [Page 79] Greater Trukese Society, at least, consumption of alcohol bolsters the young mans courage to do deeds of bravery (including killing himself), but suicide itself is an act of aggression against close kinsmen who have somehow pushed the victim over the brink of despair by rejecting him in an emotional confrontation. Under such circumstances, his only way for vengeance is to kill himself and let his tormentors suffer guilt thereafter. The case described below illustrates this. 7	No evidence	x	young adult,adult	Suicide is today the leading cause of death among Micronesians age 15 to 30. Hezel (1976) observes that these deaths follow a quite regular pattern all over the Trust Territory. Most victims are young males from districts in eastern Micronesia (especially Truk and the Marshalls) who have just had an emotional argument with a close relative or friend. Most had been drinking alcoholic beverages before committing suicide, which is usually done by hanging. By virtue of suffering over one half of all suicides in the Trust Territory from 1975 to 1976, Truk District has acquired the unenviable title of the suicide capital of Micronesia (Hezel 1976:9). Hezel argues that neither the drinking nor the family quarrel that normally precedes these suicides can explain them. Rather he suggests that we view them as acts of vengeance against those who are the objects of the victims anger. In [Page 79] Greater Trukese Society, at least, consumption of alcohol bolsters the young mans courage to do deeds of bravery (including killing himself), but suicide itself is an act of aggression against close kinsmen who have somehow pushed the victim over the brink of despair by rejecting him in an emotional confrontation. Under such circumstances, his only way for vengeance is to kill himself and let his tormentors suffer guilt thereafter. The case described below illustrates this. 7	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Suicide is today the leading cause of death among Micronesians age 15 to 30. Hezel (1976) observes that these deaths follow a quite regular pattern all over the Trust Territory. Most victims are young males from districts in eastern Micronesia (especially Truk and the Marshalls) who have just had an emotional argument with a close relative or friend. Most had been drinking alcoholic beverages before committing suicide, which is usually done by hanging. By virtue of suffering over one half of all suicides in the Trust Territory from 1975 to 1976, Truk District has acquired the unenviable title of the suicide capital of Micronesia (Hezel 1976:9). Hezel argues that neither the drinking nor the family quarrel that normally precedes these suicides can explain them. Rather he suggests that we view them as acts of vengeance against those who are the objects of the victims anger. In [Page 79] Greater Trukese Society, at least, consumption of alcohol bolsters the young mans courage to do deeds of bravery (including killing himself), but suicide itself is an act of aggression against close kinsmen who have somehow pushed the victim over the brink of despair by rejecting him in an emotional confrontation. Under such circumstances, his only way for vengeance is to kill himself and let his tormentors suffer guilt thereafter. The case described below illustrates this. 7	unknown	etic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	Greater Trukese Society, at least, consumption of alcohol bolsters the young mans courage to do deeds of bravery (including killing himself), but suicide itself is an act of aggression against close kinsmen who have somehow pushed the victim over the brink of despair by rejecting him in an emotional confrontation. Under such circumstances, his only way for vengeance is to kill himself and let his tormentors suffer guilt thereafter.	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	unknown	kin	unknown	na	No evidence	both	kin	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	Greater Trukese Society, at least, consumption of alcohol bolsters the young mans courage to do deeds of bravery (including killing himself), but suicide itself is an act of aggression against close kinsmen who have somehow pushed the victim over the brink of despair by rejecting him in an emotional confrontation. 	x	x	drunk at time	drunk at time	unknown	anger	x	x	x	no	1	x	his only way for vengeance is to kill himself and let his tormentors suffer guilt thereafter.	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
1867	syme	Cultural model	Bagisu	(3) It is relevant to note that suicide by hanging carries the implication of self-sacrifice, for traditionally animals were sacrificed without bloodshed, by strangulation or stunning.	No evidence	x	na	x	na	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	approvingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	 (3) It is relevant to note that suicide by hanging carries the implication of self-sacrifice, for traditionally animals were sacrificed without bloodshed, by strangulation or stunning.	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against		Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	na	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	na	x	x	x	x	na	x	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence	na	na
1868	syme	Case	Alorese	The suicidal quality in all these four cases must be recognized, however, since an uncontrollably violent person is apt to be killed.... The fourth case, a man, danced challenge in front of the government soldiers who came to avenge the murder of the radjah in 1918. Exposing one's body to bullets with only a carabao shield as protection can be interpreted only as suicidal in intent.	No evidence	x	adult	The suicidal quality in all these four cases must be recognized, however, since an uncontrollably violent person is apt to be killed.... The fourth case, a man, danced challenge in front of the government soldiers who came to avenge the murder of the radjah in 1918. Exposing one's body to bullets with only a carabao shield as protection can be interpreted only as suicidal in intent.	group conflict	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 a man, danced challenge in front of the government soldiers who came to avenge the murder of the radjah in 1918.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	commit_crime_for_dea	The fourth case, a man, danced challenge in front of the government soldiers who came to avenge the murder of the radjah in 1918. Exposing one's body to bullets with only a carabao shield as protection can be interpreted only as suicidal in intent.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	na	political body	na	na	No evidence	male	political body	Evidence against		other	completion,unknown	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	documented_account
1869	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chukchee	"""Suicides are frequent among the Chukchee."""	No evidence	x	unknown	x 	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	na	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		firsthand
1869	syme	Cultural model	Chukchee	"""Suicides are frequent among the Chukchee."""	No evidence	x	na	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	high suicide rate	unknown	x	x	x	x	na	x	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence	average,unknown	na
1870	zgarfield	Case	Chukchee	"""The inferior position of the woman does not exclude tender love between husband and wife. Especially do marriages contracted among children develop into a very strong tie between the married couples. When I travelled on the Wolverene River, an epidemic of influenza appeared among the Chukchee. About twenty persons died within a few days. A man, Moro'n by name, lost his wife, with whom he had lived for fifteen years, from the time when he was ten years old. On the second day after her death he took his own life by stabbing himself with a knife. 'I want to follow her,' he said before he died."""	No evidence	x	adult	"When I travelled on the Wolverene River, an epidemic of influenza appeared among the Chukchee. About twenty persons died within a few days. A man, Moro'n by name, lost his wife, with whom he had lived for fifteen years, from the time when he was ten years old. On the second day after her death he took his own life by stabbing himself with a knife. 'I want to follow her,' he said before he died."""	death loved one,disease outbreak	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	stabbing	"On the second day after her death he took his own life by stabbing himself with a knife. 'I want to follow her,' he said before he died.""
"	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	"On the second day after her death he took his own life by stabbing himself with a knife. 'I want to follow her,' he said before he died.""
"	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
1870	syme	Case	Chukchee	"""The inferior position of the woman does not exclude tender love between husband and wife. Especially do marriages contracted among children develop into a very strong tie between the married couples. When I travelled on the Wolverene River, an epidemic of influenza appeared among the Chukchee. About twenty persons died within a few days. A man, Moro'n by name, lost his wife, with whom he had lived for fifteen years, from the time when he was ten years old. On the second day after her death he took his own life by stabbing himself with a knife. 'I want to follow her,' he said before he died."""	Evidence for	x	adult	"""The inferior position of the woman does not exclude tender love between husband and wife. Especially do marriages contracted among children develop into a very strong tie between the married couples. When I travelled on the Wolverene River, an epidemic of influenza appeared among the Chukchee. About twenty persons died within a few days. A man, Moro'n by name, lost his wife, with whom he had lived for fifteen years, from the time when he was ten years old. On the second day after her death he took his own life by stabbing himself with a knife. 'I want to follow her,' he said before he died."""	death loved one,disease outbreak	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	na	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	stabbing	"'I want to follow her,' he said before he died."""	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male	wife	No evidence		no evidence	completion	25	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	5	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence	average,unknown	firsthand
1871	zgarfield	Cultural model	Iban	If the man be false to his word, and the woman commits suicide, he is held responsible for the value of her life, and is very heavily fined. It is unusual, however, for the men to prove false to their vows. It is absolutely necessary for them to marry as early in life as possible, and if a suitable woman is already found, and her fertility ascertained beyond a doubt, there is no inducement to hang back.	No evidence	x	adult	If the man be false to his word, and the woman commits suicide, he is held responsible for the value of her life, and is very heavily fined.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	If the man be false to his word, and the woman commits suicide, he is held responsible for the value of her life, and is very heavily fined.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	male	na	No evidence	female		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	If the man be false to his word, and the woman commits suicide, he is held responsible for the value of her life, and is very heavily fined.	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence against		firsthand
1871	syme	Cultural model	Iban	If the man be false to his word, and the woman commits suicide, he is held responsible for the value of her life, and is very heavily fined. It is unusual, however, for the men to prove false to their vows. It is absolutely necessary for them to marry as early in life as possible, and if a suitable woman is already found, and her fertility ascertained beyond a doubt, there is no inducement to hang back.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,unknown	 If the man be false to his word, and the woman commits suicide, he is held responsible for the value of her life, and is very heavily fined. It is unusual, however, for the men to prove false to their vows. It is absolutely necessary for them to marry as early in life as possible, and if a suitable woman is already found, and her fertility ascertained beyond a doubt, there is no inducement to hang back.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 If the man be false to his word, and the woman commits suicide, he is held responsible for the value of her life, and is very heavily fined. It is unusual, however, for the men to prove false to their vows. It is absolutely necessary for them to marry as early in life as possible, and if a suitable woman is already found, and her fertility ascertained beyond a doubt, there is no inducement to hang back.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	ado_young_adult,adult,unknown	husband	male	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
1872	zgarfield	Case	Korea	"""Suicide is uncommon. When it occurs it is among the country people. Forms of suicide are usually hanging, the taking of poison, inhaling fumes of charcoal, and cutting the throat; the most usual form is that of hanging. My informant had never heard of more than four or five instances of suicide."""	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	na	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging,poisoning,bleed_to_death	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence against	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence		x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x 	x	x	x	na	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		secondhand
1872	syme	Case	Korea	"""Suicide is uncommon. When it occurs it is among the country people. Forms of suicide are usually hanging, the taking of poison, inhaling fumes of charcoal, and cutting the throat; the most usual form is that of hanging. My informant had never heard of more than four or five instances of suicide."""	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging,poisoning,bleed_to_death	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	5,rate	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
1873	zgarfield	Cultural model	Taiwan Hokkien	"For the most part it is the ghosts of the dead. Not all the dead. Not the dead who are ancestors and are properly worshipped and looked after. Not the dead who lived to a ripe old age in their time among the living and died peacefully in their beds. Rather the less ""proper"" dead; the hungry ghosts, and the ghosts of those who died by suicide or by murder, of those who were executed or died by drowning in the river or in irrigation canals.14 These ghosts are generally concentrated ""to the north"" of Bao-an, and there are tales of odd things happening in the fields and along the roads to the north. When ""things begin to go wrong"" in the village, when there are unusual disasters, when many people are sick or there are agricultural reverses, or when means of divination do not seem to be producing workable decisions, one explanation is that despite the divine defences the ghosts have somehow got in."	No evidence	"Rather the less ""proper"" dead; the hungry ghosts, and the ghosts of those who died by suicide or by murder, of those who were executed or died by drowning in the river or in irrigation canals.14 These ghosts are generally concentrated ""to the north"" of Bao-an, and there are tales of odd things happening in the fields and along the roads to the north. When ""things begin to go wrong"" in the village, when there are unusual disasters, when many people are sick or there are agricultural reverses, or when means of divination do not seem to be producing workable decisions, one explanation is that despite the divine defences the ghosts have somehow got in."	na	x	na	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	na	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	na		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	na	x	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		na
1873	syme	Cultural model	Taiwan Hokkien	"For the most part it is the ghosts of the dead. Not all the dead. Not the dead who are ancestors and are properly worshipped and looked after. Not the dead who lived to a ripe old age in their time among the living and died peacefully in their beds. Rather the less ""proper"" dead; the hungry ghosts, and the ghosts of those who died by suicide or by murder, of those who were executed or died by drowning in the river or in irrigation canals.14 These ghosts are generally concentrated ""to the north"" of Bao-an, and there are tales of odd things happening in the fields and along the roads to the north. When ""things begin to go wrong"" in the village, when there are unusual disasters, when many people are sick or there are agricultural reverses, or when means of divination do not seem to be producing workable decisions, one explanation is that despite the divine defences the ghosts have somehow got in."	No evidence	x	unknown	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	fearfully	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence		x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	"For the most part it is the ghosts of the dead. Not all the dead. Not the dead who are ancestors and are properly worshipped and looked after. Not the dead who lived to a ripe old age in their time among the living and died peacefully in their beds. Rather the less ""proper"" dead; the hungry ghosts, and the ghosts of those who died by suicide or by murder, of those who were executed or died by drowning in the river or in irrigation canals.14 These ghosts are generally concentrated ""to the north"" of Bao-an, and there are tales of odd things happening in the fields and along the roads to the north. When ""things begin to go wrong"" in the village, when there are unusual disasters, when many people are sick or there are agricultural reverses, or when means of divination do not seem to be producing workable decisions, one explanation is that despite the divine defences the ghosts have somehow got in."	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
1874	zgarfield	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (1) family problems,	No evidence	x	unknown	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (1) family problems,	interpersonal confli,spirit attack	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (1) family problems,	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	kin	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		firsthand
1874	syme	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (1) family problems,	No evidence	x	unknown	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle... family problems,	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	fierce conflict.. family problems	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	kin	unknown	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	na
1875	zgarfield	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including , (2) marital dissatisfaction,	No evidence	x	adult	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including , (2) marital dissatisfaction,	interpersonal confli,spirit attack	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including , (2) marital dissatisfaction,	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	female	na	No evidence	unknown		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	unknown	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
1875	syme	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including , (2) marital dissatisfaction,	No evidence	x	unknown	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including , (2) marital dissatisfaction,	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including , (2) marital dissatisfaction,	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	spouse	unknown	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence for	unknown	unknown
1876	zgarfield	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (3) in-law problems,	No evidence	x	adult	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (3) in-law problems,	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (3) in-law problems,	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	kin	both	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence against		firsthand
1876	syme	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (3) in-law problems,	No evidence	x	unknown	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (3) in-law problems,	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (3) in-law problems,	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	affines	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	Evidence for	unknown	na
1877	zgarfield	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (4) the forthcoming division of the zadruga	No evidence	x	unknown	Quote: Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (4) the forthcoming division of the zadruga	group conflict,resource loss,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	Quote: Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (4) the forthcoming division of the zadruga	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
1877	syme	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (4) the forthcoming division of the zadruga	No evidence	x	unknown	the forthcoming division of the zadruga	group conflict,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	the forthcoming division of the zadruga	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	political group	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	Evidence against		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
1878	zgarfield	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (5) a wife's infidelity,	No evidence	x	unknown	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors.	spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		first person
1878	syme	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (5) a wife's infidelity,	No evidence	x	unknown	 Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (5) a wife's infidelity,	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	 Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (5) a wife's infidelity,	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	ado_young_adult,adult	wife	female	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence for		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	spiritual battle?	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
1879	zgarfield	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (6) condemnation or guilt after an immoral/criminal act,	No evidence	x	adult	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (6) condemnation or guilt after an immoral/criminal act,	accus_commit wrongdo,spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (6) condemnation or guilt after an immoral/criminal act,	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x 		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence		unknown	No evidence		firsthand
1879	syme	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (6) condemnation or guilt after an immoral/criminal act,	No evidence	x	unknown	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (6) condemnation or guilt after an immoral/criminal act,	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	spiritual battle	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	low	na
1880	zgarfield	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (7) suicide after a murder Suicide after murder is, in fact, condemnation of oneself....	Evidence for	x	adult	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (7) suicide after a murder Suicide after murder is, in fact, condemnation of oneself....	accus_commit wrongdo,spirit attack	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (7) suicide after a murder Suicide after murder is, in fact, condemnation of oneself....	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
1880	syme	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (7) suicide after a murder Suicide after murder is, in fact, condemnation of oneself....	No evidence	negative	unknown	Suicide after murder is, in fact, condemnation of oneself....	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict	disapprovingly	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		perpetrate violence	completion	x	Evidence for	unknown	no evidence of ailme	suicide after a murder Suicide after murder is, in fact, condemnation of oneself....	x	x	x	commit homicide	unknown	spiritual battle 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	na	na
1881	zgarfield	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (8) an unjust accusation,	No evidence	x	unknown	"Model type: Cultural model
Quote: Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (8) an unjust accusation,
Comment:"	accus_commit wrongdo,spirit attack	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Model type: Cultural model
Quote: Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (8) an unjust accusation,
Comment:"	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	multiple social doma	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	no	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
1881	syme	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (8) an unjust accusation,	No evidence	x	unknown	fierce conflict or spiritual battle... an unjust accusation,	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	some fierce conflict... an unjust accusation,	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	accusers	unknown	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	spiritual battle 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	na	unknown	Evidence for	low,unknown	na
1882	zgarfield	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (9) loss of material well-being,	No evidence	x	adult	"loss of material well-being,
"	spirit attack,resource loss	No evidence	na	No evidence	x 	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x 	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
1882	syme	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (9) loss of material well-being,	No evidence	x	unknown	loss of material well-being,	interpersonal confli,loss social position	No evidence	na	Evidence for	some fierce conflict loss of material well-being,	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	unknown	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	spiritual battle	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
1883	zgarfield	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (10) hardships during the occupation of 1941-1944,	No evidence	x	unknown	including (10) hardships during the occupation of 1941-1944,	group conflict,spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	"Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (10) hardships during the occupation of 1941-1944,
"	na	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	political power	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	na	x	x	x	x	Evidence for	na	na	No evidence		firsthand
1883	syme	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (10) hardships during the occupation of 1941-1944,	Evidence for	x	unknown	hardships during the occupation of 1941-1944,	group conflict,military defeat	No evidence	na	Evidence for	hardships during the occupation of 1941-1944,	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	outgroup	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	Evidence against		war	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	spiritual battle	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
1884	zgarfield	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (11) military stresses,	No evidence	x	adult	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (11) military stresses,	spirit attack,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (11) military stresses,	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	political power	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	stresses	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (11) military stresses,	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
1884	syme	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (11) military stresses,	Evidence for	x	unknown	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle, military stresses	group conflict,military defeat	No evidence	na	Evidence for	military stresses	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	outgroup	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	Evidence against		war	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	spiritual battle	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
1885	zgarfield	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (12) protracted illness,	Evidence for	x	adult	"including (12) protracted illness,
"	spirit attack,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	"including (12) protracted illness,
"	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
1885	syme	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (12) protracted illness,	Evidence for	x	unknown	spiritual battle... protracted illness,	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	spiritual battle	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	protracted illness	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
1886	zgarfield	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (13) insanity	No evidence	x	adult	"Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (13) insanity
Comment:"	spirit attack,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	"Model type: Cultural model
Quote: Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (13) insanity
Comment:"	unknown	emic	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	other	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	unknown	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (13) insanity	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
1886	syme	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (13) insanity	No evidence	x	unknown	insanity	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	unknown	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	na	1	insanity	x	x	No evidence	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	na
1887	zgarfield	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (14) post-partum depression	No evidence	x	adult	"Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors., including (14) post-partum depression
"	spirit attack,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	depression	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		yes	post-partum depression	x	x	x	not stated	1	post-partum depression	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
1887	syme	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (14) post-partum depression	No evidence	x	young adult,adult	postpartum depression	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	popular	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	postpartum depression	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	yes	depression, spiritual battle	x	x	x	not stated	1	postpartum depression	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	unknown	na
1888	zgarfield	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (15) poverty,	No evidence	x	adult	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. .including (15) poverty,	resource loss,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. 	na	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	x	x	x	x	na	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		firsthand
1888	syme	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (15) poverty,	No evidence	x	na	poverty	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	spiritual battle	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	low	na
1889	zgarfield	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (16) unhappy love relationships,	No evidence	x	unknown	including (16) unhappy love relationships,	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	including (16) unhappy love relationships,	na	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	unhappy 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
1889	syme	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (16) unhappy love relationships,	No evidence	x	unknown	unhappy love relationships,	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict... unhappy love relationships,	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	spouse,partner	unknown	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	spiritual battle 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	na	na
1890	zgarfield	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (17) demeaning social status,	No evidence	x	adult	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (17) demeaning social status,	interpersonal confli,spirit attack	No evidence	na	No evidence	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (17) demeaning social status,	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	demeaning 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
1890	syme	Cultural model	Serbs	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle which usually takes place without witnesses who can understand or describe these factors. In some of the Takovo area's cases, one can infer the cause from data on the personality of the individual. Both causes and circumstances were very diverse, including (17) demeaning social status,	No evidence	x	unknown	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle... demeaning social status,	interpersonal confli,loss social position	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Every suicide results from some fierce conflict or spiritual battle... demeaning social status,	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	superior	unknown	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	spiritual battle	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	x	Evidence for	na	unknown	No evidence	low	unknown
1891	zgarfield	Cultural model	Serbs	The women committed suicide, for the most part, because of love or disillusionment in marriage. We can also add to this group those listed under sorrow over a son and fear of losing one's son. All the other reasons, such as illness, are of a secondary nature.	No evidence	x	adult	The women committed suicide, for the most part, because of love or disillusionment in marriage. We can also add to this group those listed under sorrow over a son and fear of losing one's son.	interpersonal confli,death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	The women committed suicide, for the most part, because of love or disillusionment in marriage. We can also add to this group those listed under sorrow over a son and fear of losing one's son.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	unknown	na	No evidence	more often women		No evidence	Evidence for	death of a loved one	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	because of love or disillusionment in marriage. 	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
1891	syme	Cultural model	Serbs	The women committed suicide, for the most part, because of love or disillusionment in marriage. We can also add to this group those listed under sorrow over a son and fear of losing one's son. All the other reasons, such as illness, are of a secondary nature.	No evidence	x	young adult,adult,unknown	The women committed suicide, for the most part, because of love or disillusionment in marriage. We can also add to this group those listed under sorrow over a son and fear of losing one's son. All the other reasons, such as illness, are of a secondary nature.	interpersonal confli,death loved one,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The women committed suicide, for the most part, because of love or disillusionment in marriage. 	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	ado_young_adult,adult,unknown	spouse	male	na	Evidence for	female	son	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	All the other reasons, such as illness, are of a secondary nature.	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
1892	zgarfield	Cultural model	Serbs	The men killed themselves more in response to or fear of social disapproval, such as destruction of reputation or loss of prestige in society, escape from legal or social condemnation for some action, fear of losing face because of loss of wealth, despair because of injustice, or the like. The frequent suicides due to marital infidelity have a similar basis in the humiliation involved in knowing that one's wife has slept with another man.	No evidence	x	adult	he men killed themselves more in response to or fear of social disapproval, such as destruction of reputation or loss of prestige in society, escape from legal or social condemnation for some action, fear of losing face because of loss of wealth, despair because of injustice, or the like. The frequent suicides due to marital infidelity have a similar basis in the humiliation involved in knowing that one's wife has slept with another man.	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo,rejection,resource loss	No evidence	na	No evidence	fear of social disapproval, such as destruction of reputation or loss of prestige in society, escape from legal or social condemnation for some action, fear of losing face because of loss of wealth, despair because of injustice, or the like. The frequent suicides due to marital infidelity 	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	fear despair humiliation	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
1892	syme	Cultural model	Serbs	The men killed themselves more in response to or fear of social disapproval, such as destruction of reputation or loss of prestige in society, escape from legal or social condemnation for some action, fear of losing face because of loss of wealth, despair because of injustice, or the like. The frequent suicides due to marital infidelity have a similar basis in the humiliation involved in knowing that one's wife has slept with another man.	No evidence	x	unknown	The men killed themselves more in response to or fear of social disapproval, such as destruction of reputation or loss of prestige in society, escape from legal or social condemnation for some action, fear of losing face because of loss of wealth, despair because of injustice, or the like. The frequent suicides due to marital infidelity have a similar basis in the humiliation involved in knowing that one's wife has slept with another man.	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo,rejection,loss social position,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	The men killed themselves more in response to or fear of social disapproval, such as destruction of reputation or loss of prestige in society, escape from legal or social condemnation for some action, fear of losing face because of loss of wealth, despair because of injustice, or the like. The frequent suicides due to marital infidelity have a similar basis in the humiliation involved in knowing that one's wife has slept with another man.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	escape from legal or social condemnation for some action, fear of losing face because of loss of wealth, despair because of injustice, or the like.	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	wife,social group	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	"fear
"	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	unknown	Evidence for	low	na
1893	zgarfield	Cultural model	Taiwan Hokkien	r (3) (aberrant late version) were Ming loyalists who committed suicide in protest against the Ch'ing dynasty.	Evidence for	x	adult	r (3) (aberrant late version) were Ming loyalists who committed suicide in protest against the Ch'ing dynasty.	military defeat	No evidence	na	Evidence for	r (3) (aberrant late version) were Ming loyalists who committed suicide in protest against the Ch'ing dynasty.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	political power	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	?	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
1893	syme	Cultural model	Taiwan Hokkien	r (3) (aberrant late version) were Ming loyalists who committed suicide in protest against the Ch'ing dynasty.	No evidence	x	unknown	(aberrant late version) were Ming loyalists who committed suicide in protest against the Ch'ing dynasty.	group conflict,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	(aberrant late version) were Ming loyalists who committed suicide in protest against the Ch'ing dynasty.	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	government	na	na	No evidence	unknown	government	Evidence against		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	group	x	x	x	Evidence for	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
1894	zgarfield	Case	Ojibwa	"Recalling a later epidemic, trader George Nelson wrote of survivors committing suicide in despair at being left alone and of healthy individuals helping sick relatives to die sooner. Nelson claimed that ""these acts of their despair, probably carried off more than the disease itself."""	Evidence for	x	adult	survivors committing suicide in despair at being left alone and of healthy individuals helping sick relatives to die sooner.	disease outbreak,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	Evidence for	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	committing suicide in despair at being left alone	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	other	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	despair	committing suicide in despair at being left alone	x	x	not stated	multiple	x	x	healthy individuals helping sick relatives to die sooner	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		documented_account
1894	syme	Case	Ojibwa	"Recalling a later epidemic, trader George Nelson wrote of survivors committing suicide in despair at being left alone and of healthy individuals helping sick relatives to die sooner. Nelson claimed that ""these acts of their despair, probably carried off more than the disease itself."""	Evidence for	x	unknown	"Recalling a later epidemic, trader George Nelson wrote of survivors committing suicide in despair at being left alone and of healthy individuals helping sick relatives to die sooner. Nelson claimed that ""these acts of their despair, probably carried off more than the disease itself."""	disease outbreak,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	ask_someone_else	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	other	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	unknown,rate	x	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence	unknown	secondhand
1895	zgarfield	Cultural model	Ojibwa	"In 1781, William Tomison at York Factory noted, similarly, that ""many put an end to their own existence to end the pain, and others for grief at the loss of their families."""	Evidence for	x	unknown	"1781, William Tomison at York Factory noted, similarly, that ""many put an end to their own existence to end the pain, and others for grief at the loss of their families."""	death loved one,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	death of a loved one	completion	x	No evidence	na	other chronic pain	x		x	x		na	pain, grief 	x	x	x	na	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		firsthand
1895	syme	Cultural model	Ojibwa	"In 1781, William Tomison at York Factory noted, similarly, that ""many put an end to their own existence to end the pain, and others for grief at the loss of their families."""	Evidence for	x	unknown	"In 1781, William Tomison at York Factory noted, similarly, that ""many put an end to their own existence to end the pain"""	disease outbreak,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	etic	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	end the pain	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	severe	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	x	x	x	"In 1781, William Tomison at York Factory noted, similarly, that ""many put an end to their own existence to end the pain (talking about disease)"	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
1896	zgarfield	Case	Chukchee	In this case a man taken from the family of the offender had to be adopted by the family of the victim, and in every way took his place. I know of another case of similar character. Pe'qul, a man of Maritime origin, had a cousin who was an assistant herdsman in a large tundra herd on the Wolverene River. After a couple of years, the young herdsman was killed in a scuffle. Pe'qul came to the Wolverene River to seek for indemnity and revenge. He took from the family of the murderer a number of reindeer by way of ransom ...; then he also took a young boy, the son of the sister of the murderer and carried him to his own house. The boy was treated very harshly, so that he Page: 660-661 even tried to commit suicide. The he was released in exchange for a new payment in live reindeer. Pe'qul also threatened to take a certain young woman from the same family. The woman also declared that she would rather destroy her own life.	Evidence for	x	young adult	He took from the family of the murderer a number of reindeer by way of ransom ...; then he also took a young boy, the son of the sister of the murderer and carried him to his own house. The boy was treated very harshly, so that he Page: 660-661 even tried to commit suicide. The he was released in exchange for a new payment in live reindeer. Pe'qul also threatened to take a certain young woman from the same family. The woman also declared that she would rather destroy her own life.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	He took from the family of the murderer a number of reindeer by way of ransom ...; then he also took a young boy, the son of the sister of the murderer and carried him to his own house. The boy was treated very harshly, so that he Page: 660-661 even tried to commit suicide. The he was released in exchange for a new payment in live reindeer. Pe'qul also threatened to take a certain young woman from the same family. The woman also declared that she would rather destroy her own life.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	captors	male	brother	No evidence	both		No evidence	Evidence for	physical abuse	threat,attempt	x	No evidence	severe	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		no	x	The boy was treated very harshly, so that he Page: 660-661 even tried to commit suicide.	x	x	not stated	2	x	x	treated very harshly	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
1896	syme	Case	Chukchee	In this case a man taken from the family of the offender had to be adopted by the family of the victim, and in every way took his place. I know of another case of similar character. Pe'qul, a man of Maritime origin, had a cousin who was an assistant herdsman in a large tundra herd on the Wolverene River. After a couple of years, the young herdsman was killed in a scuffle. Pe'qul came to the Wolverene River to seek for indemnity and revenge. He took from the family of the murderer a number of reindeer by way of ransom ...; then he also took a young boy, the son of the sister of the murderer and carried him to his own house. The boy was treated very harshly, so that he Page: 660-661 even tried to commit suicide. The he was released in exchange for a new payment in live reindeer. Pe'qul also threatened to take a certain young woman from the same family. The woman also declared that she would rather destroy her own life.	Evidence for	x	young adult	In this case a man taken from the family of the offender had to be adopted by the family of the victim, and in every way took his place. I know of another case of similar character. Pe'qul, a man of Maritime origin, had a cousin who was an assistant herdsman in a large tundra herd on the Wolverene River. After a couple of years, the young herdsman was killed in a scuffle. Pe'qul came to the Wolverene River to seek for indemnity and revenge. He took from the family of the murderer a number of reindeer by way of ransom ...; then he also took a young boy, the son of the sister of the murderer and carried him to his own house. The boy was treated very harshly, so that he Page: 660-661 even tried to commit suicide. The he was released in exchange for a new payment in live reindeer. Pe'qul also threatened to take a certain young woman from the same family. The woman also declared that she would rather destroy her own life.	group conflict,enslavement_capture,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	In this case a man taken from the family of the offender had to be adopted by the family of the victim, and in every way took his place. I know of another case of similar character. Pe'qul, a man of Maritime origin, had a cousin who was an assistant herdsman in a large tundra herd on the Wolverene River. After a couple of years, the young herdsman was killed in a scuffle. Pe'qul came to the Wolverene River to seek for indemnity and revenge. He took from the family of the murderer a number of reindeer by way of ransom ...; then he also took a young boy, the son of the sister of the murderer and carried him to his own house. The boy was treated very harshly, so that he Page: 660-661 even tried to commit suicide. The he was released in exchange for a new payment in live reindeer. Pe'qul also threatened to take a certain young woman from the same family. The woman also declared that she would rather destroy her own life.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	adult	captors	both	na	No evidence	female	captors	Evidence against		no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	high suicide rate	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	was not captured	x	Evidence for	public	no	Evidence for	average,unknown	unknown
1897	zgarfield	Case	Ojibwa	To bolster their argument, informants referred to another recent case of suicide. In this case the man had just returned from jail and had no job. He was threatened with jail again and as a result committed suicide. Whatever the truth of these assertions may be they do indicate on the part of the [unavailable]ound Lake Ojibwa their fear of jails, policemen, and Canadian law and their latent hostility toward the Euro-Canadian.	Evidence for	x	adult	In this case the man had just returned from jail and had no job. He was threatened with jail again and as a result committed suicide	accus_commit wrongdo	No evidence	na	Evidence for	In this case the man had just returned from jail and had no job. He was threatened with jail again and as a result committed suicide	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	political power	unknown	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence		hearsay
1897	syme	Case	Ojibwa	To bolster their argument, informants referred to another recent case of suicide. In this case the man had just returned from jail and had no job. He was threatened with jail again and as a result committed suicide. Whatever the truth of these assertions may be they do indicate on the part of the [unavailable]ound Lake Ojibwa their fear of jails, policemen, and Canadian law and their latent hostility toward the Euro-Canadian.	No evidence	x	adult,unknown	To bolster their argument, informants referred to another recent case of suicide. In this case the man had just returned from jail and had no job. He was threatened with jail again and as a result committed suicide. Whatever the truth of these assertions may be they do indicate on the part of the [unavailable]ound Lake Ojibwa their fear of jails, policemen, and Canadian law and their latent hostility toward the Euro-Canadian.	group conflict,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	To bolster their argument, informants referred to another recent case of suicide. In this case the man had just returned from jail and had no job. He was threatened with jail again and as a result committed suicide. Whatever the truth of these assertions may be they do indicate on the part of the [unavailable]ound Lake Ojibwa their fear of jails, policemen, and Canadian law and their latent hostility toward the Euro-Canadian.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	outgroup	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	Evidence against		no evidence	completion	x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	2	x	x	unemployment	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence	low	secondhand
1899	zgarfield	Cultural model	Ojibwa	Misfortunes and losses of various kinds, sometimes the death of friends, and possibly, in some instances, disappointment in affairs of love, may be considered the causes which produce suicide among the Indians.	No evidence	x	unknown	"Misfortunes and losses of various kinds, sometimes the death of friends, and possibly, in some instances, disappointment in affairs of love, may be considered the causes which produce suicide among the Indians.
"	death loved one,rejection,resource loss	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence		firsthand
1899	syme	Cultural model	Ojibwa	Misfortunes and losses of various kinds, sometimes the death of friends, and possibly, in some instances, disappointment in affairs of love, may be considered the causes which produce suicide among the Indians.	No evidence	x	unknown	Misfortunes and losses of various kinds, sometimes the death of friends, 	death loved one	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	social partner	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence	unknown	na
1900	zgarfield	Case	Tlingit	A similar instance came under the writer's own observation. Two brothers in Sitka secured and lacerated the tongue of a raven, hiding it in a chink in the outer wall of their house. One morning, to their terror, they found it missing. Through fear and suspense one brother lost his mind and killed himself. The other brother made numerous attempts to follow his example and was finally successful.	No evidence	x	adult	One morning, to their terror, they found it missing. Through fear and suspense one brother lost his mind and killed himself. The other brother made numerous attempts to follow his example and was finally successful.	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	One morning, to their terror, they found it missing. Through fear and suspense one brother lost his mind and killed himself. The other brother made numerous attempts to follow his example and was finally successful.	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	brother	other	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	brother	No evidence	male		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		unknown	terror	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
1900	syme	Case	Tlingit	A similar instance came under the writer's own observation. Two brothers in Sitka secured and lacerated the tongue of a raven, hiding it in a chink in the outer wall of their house. One morning, to their terror, they found it missing. Through fear and suspense one brother lost his mind and killed himself. The other brother made numerous attempts to follow his example and was finally successful.	No evidence	x	unknown	Two brothers in Sitka secured and lacerated the tongue of a raven, hiding it in a chink in the outer wall of their house. One morning, to their terror, they found it missing. Through fear and suspense one brother lost his mind and killed himself.	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	brother	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	x	unknown	fear and suspense	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	unknown
1901	zgarfield	Case	Tlingit	"THE ORIGIN OF KLAWAK There was (once) a man named Tl[unknown]awa'h.204 He had a son named Tihge't. Tihget's mother was Takuye'tl and his uncle (mother's brother) was Yetlcani'h (old raven). The uncle's wife was quite young while her husband, Yetlcanih, was along in years. She took a fancy to Tihget, who was living in his uncle's house, as is customary. One day on the pretext of giving him some clothing and tobacco she asked him into her bedroom and began making love to him. Eventually he yielded. That same night she felt she was pregnant. Her husband was away at the time. He returned, and after some months he asked her how it was that her menses had stopped. Then she confessed to her affair. She was childless and she hoped her husband would give her to his nephew Tihget as a wife [a fairly common custom]. But the husband was angry and threatened to kill Tihget, saying, ""If I forgive him the next generation will do the same thing."" Tihget was blas and said, ""All right. Let him kill me. I didn't wish to sleep with her."" The wife told her husband, ""If you wish to kill me, all right. If you kill your nephew, I'll die with him. It is better if I and his child within me die with him."" But he wished to kill only his nephew. The woman went to her husband's sister and told all, asking her to tell her husband, Tlawah, Tihget's father, so he could plan to save his son. The next day Tlawah said to his wife, ""We had better leave this country."" They agreed to go to the north. She wanted to. (They were living at K[unknown]ad[unknown]ukhuka'h on Kanaganut Island.) Tihget no longer slept in the house but hid himself. Tlawah called together all the Ganaxadi men who were married to Tekwedih women. He said he wanted to move away to prevent war between the two clans, and to save his son. He asked the Ganaxadi if they wanted to war on their own ""children,"" the Tekwedih. They answered ""no."" They agreed to take their wives and children and to go away themselves. Near Ketchikan is a humpback-salmon creek called Ana'n, owned by the Tekwedih. Tlawah went where the Ganaxadi had fishing camps, while Yetlcanih and his group went to Anan. Later he went to the Ganaxadi camp, because his wife was soon to have her child and he came to kill his nephew. It was night and high tide. Tlawah and his group secretly packed their things in canoes and hid them. In the morning it was foggy and they started out, singing a song called k[unknown]atna'wustakihc[unknown]i'h (moving away our clan). Then Yetleanih called all the remaining people together on the beach and wept. He was sorry for what he had done. Tlawah and his group sang ""akanitlkuk[unknown]atl'n"" (my land nevermore I'll see) as they went. Tihget stood in the bow of the canoe and faced out to sea, for he didn't wish to see his uncle. As the tide came in, the current took the canoe to the north. They didn't paddle. But Yetlcanih stood at the beach and let the tide reach to his waist. He was going to allow himself to drown because his wife was the cause of his losing his nephew and his father's people. [p. 103-b] But his brothers-in-law came out, took him in and talked to him, and ""made him feel good."" Told by John Darrow, a member of the Ganaxadi clan. This account is certainly semihistorical."	Evidence for	x	adult	"But the husband was angry and threatened to kill Tihget, saying, ""If I forgive him the next generation will do the same thing."" Tihget was blas and said, ""All right. Let him kill me. I didn't wish to sleep with her."" The wife told her husband, ""If you wish to kill me, all right. If you kill your nephew, I'll die with him. It is better if I and his child within me die with him."""	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"But the husband was angry and threatened to kill Tihget, saying, ""If I forgive him the next generation will do the same thing."" Tihget was blas and said, ""All right. Let him kill me. I didn't wish to sleep with her."" The wife told her husband, ""If you wish to kill me, all right. If you kill your nephew, I'll die with him. It is better if I and his child within me die with him."""	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	adult	spouse	male	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x		yes	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"But he wished to kill only his nephew. The woman went to her husband's sister and told all, asking her to tell her husband, Tlawah, Tihget's father, so he could plan to save his son. The next day Tlawah said to his wife, ""We had better leave this country."" They agreed to go to the north. "	x	No evidence	public	no	Evidence against		firsthand
1901	syme	Case	Tlingit	"THE ORIGIN OF KLAWAK There was (once) a man named Tl[unknown]awa'h.204 He had a son named Tihge't. Tihget's mother was Takuye'tl and his uncle (mother's brother) was Yetlcani'h (old raven). The uncle's wife was quite young while her husband, Yetlcanih, was along in years. She took a fancy to Tihget, who was living in his uncle's house, as is customary. One day on the pretext of giving him some clothing and tobacco she asked him into her bedroom and began making love to him. Eventually he yielded. That same night she felt she was pregnant. Her husband was away at the time. He returned, and after some months he asked her how it was that her menses had stopped. Then she confessed to her affair. She was childless and she hoped her husband would give her to his nephew Tihget as a wife [a fairly common custom]. But the husband was angry and threatened to kill Tihget, saying, ""If I forgive him the next generation will do the same thing."" Tihget was blas and said, ""All right. Let him kill me. I didn't wish to sleep with her."" The wife told her husband, ""If you wish to kill me, all right. If you kill your nephew, I'll die with him. It is better if I and his child within me die with him."" But he wished to kill only his nephew. The woman went to her husband's sister and told all, asking her to tell her husband, Tlawah, Tihget's father, so he could plan to save his son. The next day Tlawah said to his wife, ""We had better leave this country."" They agreed to go to the north. She wanted to. (They were living at K[unknown]ad[unknown]ukhuka'h on Kanaganut Island.) Tihget no longer slept in the house but hid himself. Tlawah called together all the Ganaxadi men who were married to Tekwedih women. He said he wanted to move away to prevent war between the two clans, and to save his son. He asked the Ganaxadi if they wanted to war on their own ""children,"" the Tekwedih. They answered ""no."" They agreed to take their wives and children and to go away themselves. Near Ketchikan is a humpback-salmon creek called Ana'n, owned by the Tekwedih. Tlawah went where the Ganaxadi had fishing camps, while Yetlcanih and his group went to Anan. Later he went to the Ganaxadi camp, because his wife was soon to have her child and he came to kill his nephew. It was night and high tide. Tlawah and his group secretly packed their things in canoes and hid them. In the morning it was foggy and they started out, singing a song called k[unknown]atna'wustakihc[unknown]i'h (moving away our clan). Then Yetleanih called all the remaining people together on the beach and wept. He was sorry for what he had done. Tlawah and his group sang ""akanitlkuk[unknown]atl'n"" (my land nevermore I'll see) as they went. Tihget stood in the bow of the canoe and faced out to sea, for he didn't wish to see his uncle. As the tide came in, the current took the canoe to the north. They didn't paddle. But Yetlcanih stood at the beach and let the tide reach to his waist. He was going to allow himself to drown because his wife was the cause of his losing his nephew and his father's people. [p. 103-b] But his brothers-in-law came out, took him in and talked to him, and ""made him feel good."" Told by John Darrow, a member of the Ganaxadi clan. This account is certainly semihistorical."	No evidence	x	young adult	" THE ORIGIN OF KLAWAK There was (once) a man named Tl[unknown]awa'h.204 He had a son named Tihge't. Tihget's mother was Takuye'tl and his uncle (mother's brother) was Yetlcani'h (old raven). The uncle's wife was quite young while her husband, Yetlcanih, was along in years. She took a fancy to Tihget, who was living in his uncle's house, as is customary. One day on the pretext of giving him some clothing and tobacco she asked him into her bedroom and began making love to him. Eventually he yielded. That same night she felt she was pregnant. Her husband was away at the time. He returned, and after some months he asked her how it was that her menses had stopped. Then she confessed to her affair. She was childless and she hoped her husband would give her to his nephew Tihget as a wife [a fairly common custom]. But the husband was angry and threatened to kill Tihget, saying, ""If I forgive him the next generation will do the same thing."" Tihget was blas and said, ""All right. Let him kill me. I didn't wish to sleep with her."" The wife told her husband, ""If you wish to kill me, all right. If you kill your nephew, I'll die with him. It is better if I and his child within me die with him."" But he wished to kill only his nephew. "	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	" THE ORIGIN OF KLAWAK There was (once) a man named Tl[unknown]awa'h.204 He had a son named Tihge't. Tihget's mother was Takuye'tl and his uncle (mother's brother) was Yetlcani'h (old raven). The uncle's wife was quite young while her husband, Yetlcanih, was along in years. She took a fancy to Tihget, who was living in his uncle's house, as is customary. One day on the pretext of giving him some clothing and tobacco she asked him into her bedroom and began making love to him. Eventually he yielded. That same night she felt she was pregnant. Her husband was away at the time. He returned, and after some months he asked her how it was that her menses had stopped. Then she confessed to her affair. She was childless and she hoped her husband would give her to his nephew Tihget as a wife [a fairly common custom]. But the husband was angry and threatened to kill Tihget, saying, ""If I forgive him the next generation will do the same thing."" Tihget was blas and said, ""All right. Let him kill me. I didn't wish to sleep with her."" The wife told her husband, ""If you wish to kill me, all right. If you kill your nephew, I'll die with him. It is better if I and his child within me die with him."" But he wished to kill only his nephew. "	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	"The wife told her husband, ""If you wish to kill me, all right. If you kill your nephew, I'll die with him. It is better if I and his child within me die with him."" But he wished to kill only his nephew. "	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	elder,unknown	husband	male	na	Evidence for	female	husband	Evidence for		no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x	pregnancy	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	" The woman went to her husband's sister and told all, asking her to tell her husband, Tlawah, Tihget's father, so he could plan to save his son. The next day Tlawah said to his wife, ""We had better leave this country."" They agreed to go to the north. She wanted to. (They were living at K[unknown]ad[unknown]ukhuka'h on Kanaganut Island.) Tihget no longer slept in the house but hid himself. Tlawah called together all the Ganaxadi men who were married to Tekwedih women. He said he wanted to move away to prevent war between the two clans, and to save his son. He asked the Ganaxadi if they wanted to war on their own ""children,"" the Tekwedih. They answered ""no."" They agreed to take their wives and children and to go away themselves. Near Ketchikan is a humpback-salmon creek called Ana'n, owned by the Tekwedih. Tlawah went where the Ganaxadi had fishing camps, while Yetlcanih and his group went to Anan. Later he went to the Ganaxadi camp, because his wife was soon to have her child and he came to kill his nephew. It was night and high tide. Tlawah and his group secretly packed their things in canoes and hid them. In the morning it was foggy and they started out, singing a song called k[unknown]atna'wustakihc[unknown]i'h (moving away our clan). Then Yetleanih called all the remaining people together on the beach and wept. He was sorry for what he had done. Tlawah and his group sang ""akanitlkuk[unknown]atl'n"" (my land nevermore I'll see) as they went. Tihget stood in the bow of the canoe and faced out to sea, for he didn't wish to see his uncle. As the tide came in, the current took the canoe to the north. They didn't paddle. But Yetlcanih stood at the beach and let the tide reach to his waist. He was going to allow himself to drown because his wife was the cause of his losing his nephew and his father's people. [p. 103-b] But his brothers-in-law came out, took him in and talked to him, and ""made him feel good."" Told by John Darrow, a member of the Ganaxadi clan. This account is certainly semihistorical. "	x	Evidence for	public	no	Evidence for	unknown	hearsay
1902	zgarfield	Case	Chuuk	"Only one case of the suicide of thwarted lovers was in fact remembered by any of our informants; this happened several years before on a neighboring island, the couple jumping over a cliff rather than hanging themselves. This episode lent authenticity to the threat and effectiveness to the device. The first of the two recent ""incestuous"" marriages on Romonum was accomplished by the threat of suicide."	No evidence	x	young adult	Only one case of the suicide of thwarted lovers was in fact remembered by any of our informants; this happened several years before on a neighboring island, the couple jumping over a cliff rather than hanging themselves. 	interpersonal confli	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Only one case of the suicide of thwarted lovers was in fact remembered by any of our informants; this happened several years before on a neighboring island, the couple jumping over a cliff rather than hanging themselves. 	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	jumping	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	multiple social doma	unknown	na	No evidence	both		No evidence	Evidence for	no evidence	threat,completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	4	x	x		unknown	thwarted 	Only one case of the suicide of thwarted lovers was in fact remembered by any of our informants; this happened several years before on a neighboring island, the couple jumping over a cliff rather than hanging themselves. 	x	x	not stated	2	x	x	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	No evidence		hearsay
1902	syme	Case	Chuuk	"Only one case of the suicide of thwarted lovers was in fact remembered by any of our informants; this happened several years before on a neighboring island, the couple jumping over a cliff rather than hanging themselves. This episode lent authenticity to the threat and effectiveness to the device. The first of the two recent ""incestuous"" marriages on Romonum was accomplished by the threat of suicide."	No evidence	x	young adult	" The first of the two recent ""incestuous"" marriages on Romonum was accomplished by the threat of suicide."	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	" The first of the two recent ""incestuous"" marriages on Romonum was accomplished by the threat of suicide."	unknown	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	na	"This episode lent authenticity to the threat and effectiveness to the device. The first of the two recent ""incestuous"" marriages on Romonum was accomplished by the threat of suicide."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	kin group	unknown	na	No evidence	both	kin group	Evidence for		no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	3	x	x	x	no	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	"This episode lent authenticity to the threat and effectiveness to the device. The first of the two recent ""incestuous"" marriages on Romonum was accomplished by the threat of suicide."	x	Evidence for	public	no	No evidence	unknown	unknown
1903	zgarfield	Cultural model	Chuuk	This examination revealed quite clearly that in really difficult situations the women do indeed act more adequately than the men. For example, it is only the men who, faced with rejection by their relatives, can find no solution outside of suicide; on the other hand, in the dilemma created by the arrangement of an undesirable marriage by the parents in our cases it was only the girl who was able to launch an effective protest.	No evidence	x	young adult	For example, it is only the men who, faced with rejection by their relatives, can find no solution outside of suicide	rejection	No evidence	na	No evidence	For example, it is only the men who, faced with rejection by their relatives, can find no solution outside of suicide	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	unknown	kin	unknown	na	No evidence	male		Evidence for	Evidence for	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		unknown	x	For example, it is only the men who, faced with rejection by their relatives, can find no solution outside of suicide	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	no	No evidence		firsthand
1903	syme	Cultural model	Chuuk	This examination revealed quite clearly that in really difficult situations the women do indeed act more adequately than the men. For example, it is only the men who, faced with rejection by their relatives, can find no solution outside of suicide; on the other hand, in the dilemma created by the arrangement of an undesirable marriage by the parents in our cases it was only the girl who was able to launch an effective protest.	No evidence	x	young adult	on the other hand, in the dilemma created by the arrangement of an undesirable marriage by the parents in our cases it was only the girl who was able to launch an effective protest.	interpersonal confli,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	on the other hand, in the dilemma created by the arrangement of an undesirable marriage by the parents in our cases it was only the girl who was able to launch an effective protest.	unknown	unknown	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence against	not stated	on the other hand, in the dilemma created by the arrangement of an undesirable marriage by the parents in our cases it was only the girl who was able to launch an effective protest.	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	adult,unknown	kin	both	na	No evidence	female	x	Evidence for		no evidence	attempt,unknown	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	on the other hand, in the dilemma created by the arrangement of an undesirable marriage by the parents in our cases it was only the girl who was able to launch an effective protest.	x	Evidence for	public	no	No evidence	unknown	na
1904	zgarfield	Cultural model	Tikopia	But while the Tikopia distinguish suicides due to insanity from ordinary suicide, they are sometimes inclined to attribute the obsessional aspect of suicide to a temporary disturbance of the balance of the mind. They may even use the same expression (vare ) as is used for insanity, although it is susceptible of a range of translation, and can also properly be interpreted in the relatively mild sense of plain silliness or stupidity. The expression is, 'His mind has been caused to be bound by the spirits.' His mental balance has been disturbed and his judgement affected.	No evidence	x	unknown	But while the Tikopia distinguish suicides due to insanity from ordinary suicide, they are sometimes inclined to attribute the obsessional aspect of suicide to a temporary disturbance of the balance of the mind. 	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence		No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	unknown	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	But while the Tikopia distinguish suicides due to insanity from ordinary suicide, they are sometimes inclined to attribute the obsessional aspect of suicide to a temporary disturbance of the balance of the mind. They may even use the same expression (vare ) as is used for insanity, although it is susceptible of a range of translation, and can also properly be interpreted in the relatively mild sense of plain silliness or stupidity. The expression is, 'His mind has been caused to be bound by the spirits.' His mental balance has been disturbed and his judgement affected.		na	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	"They may even use the same expression (vare ) as is used for insanity, although it is susceptible of a range of translation, and can also properly be interpreted in the relatively mild sense of plain silliness or stupidity. The expression is, 'His mind has been caused to be bound by the spirits.' His mental balance has been disturbed and his judgement affected.
"	x	x	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		first person
1904	syme	Cultural model	Tikopia	But while the Tikopia distinguish suicides due to insanity from ordinary suicide, they are sometimes inclined to attribute the obsessional aspect of suicide to a temporary disturbance of the balance of the mind. They may even use the same expression (vare ) as is used for insanity, although it is susceptible of a range of translation, and can also properly be interpreted in the relatively mild sense of plain silliness or stupidity. The expression is, 'His mind has been caused to be bound by the spirits.' His mental balance has been disturbed and his judgement affected.	No evidence	x	unknown	But while the Tikopia distinguish suicides due to insanity from ordinary suicide,	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	unknown	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	unknown	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	But while the Tikopia distinguish suicides due to insanity from ordinary suicide,	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	But while the Tikopia distinguish suicides due to insanity from ordinary suicide,	x	x	No evidence	na	no	No evidence	unknown	na
1905	zgarfield	Case	Tukano/Ticuna	"""I want to die,"" said one of these old men to Pe. Antnio Giacone, ""because my teeth are tired of chewing."" Pe. Joao Marchesi related to us the details of the only case of suicide that he had heard of."	No evidence	x	elderly	"""I want to die,"" said one of these old men to Pe. Antnio Giacone, ""because my teeth are tired of chewing."" "	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	na	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	threat	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x		x	x		na	tired	x	x	x	na	1	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		firsthand
1905	syme	Case	Tukano/Ticuna	"""I want to die,"" said one of these old men to Pe. Antnio Giacone, ""because my teeth are tired of chewing."" Pe. Joao Marchesi related to us the details of the only case of suicide that he had heard of."	No evidence	x	elderly	"""I want to die,"" said one of these old men to Pe. Antnio Giacone, ""because my teeth are tired of chewing."" Pe. Joao Marchesi related to us the details of the only case of suicide that he had heard of."	other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	na	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	na	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	Evidence for	male	x	No evidence		no evidence	threat,ideation	x	No evidence	chronic	other	x	2	x	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	"""I want to die,"" said one of these old men to Pe. Antnio Giacone, ""because my teeth are tired of chewing."" Pe. Joao Marchesi related to us the details of the only case of suicide that he had heard of."	No evidence	public	unknown	No evidence	unknown	firsthand
1906	zgarfield	Cultural model	Kogi	"Women commit suicide ""out of fear,"" when discovered in adultery or when they have been sick for a long time. In one case we learned of a woman who committed suicide because of her sterility."	No evidence	x	adult	"Women commit suicide ""out of fear,"" when discovered in adultery or when they have been sick for a long time. In one case we learned of a woman who committed suicide because of her sterility."	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	emic	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	popular	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	female		No evidence	Evidence for	other	completion	x	No evidence	unknown	other	x		x	x		na	fear	"Women commit suicide ""out of fear,"" when discovered in adultery or when they have been sick for a long time. In one case we learned of a woman who committed suicide because of her sterility."	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	when they have been sick for a long time. In one case we learned of a woman who committed suicide because of her sterility.	No evidence	na	unknown	No evidence		secondhand
1906	syme	Cultural model	Kogi	"Women commit suicide ""out of fear,"" when discovered in adultery or when they have been sick for a long time. In one case we learned of a woman who committed suicide because of her sterility."	No evidence	x	unknown	"Women commit suicide ""out of fear,"" when discovered in adultery or when they have been sick for a long time."	interpersonal confli,accus_commit wrongdo,other	No evidence	na	Evidence for	"Women commit suicide ""out of fear,"" when discovered in adultery or when they have been sick for a long time. In one case we learned of a woman who committed suicide because of her sterility."	unknown	unknown	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	Evidence for	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	adult	husband	male	na	Evidence for	female	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	x	x	x	unknown	fear	x	x	x	not stated	1	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	na
1908	zgarfield	Case	Ojibwa	Two young men in Weagamow, an Ojibway community of just 621 people, took their own lives in September, 1990. Their deaths were a wrenching blow in a community still grieving for four youth who had hung themselves during the previous year. Suicide is a tragedy that occurs in the First Nation communities of Northern Ontario with frightening regularity. The Sioux Lookout Zone Hospital, which serves Weagamow and 26 other Native communities, reported 143 attempted and 10 known suicides in 1990. And these are probably only a fraction of the actual suicides if, as Jarvis and Boldt (1982) suggest, violent deaths involving alcohol drownings, traffic fatalities and victim induced homicides are commonly miscategorized as accidents or crimes.	No evidence	x	young adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	disapprovingly	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	not stated	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	male		No evidence	No evidence	no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	1	x	x		unknown	x	x	x	x	na	2	x	x	x	No evidence	na	na	No evidence		firsthand
1908	syme	Case	Ojibwa	Two young men in Weagamow, an Ojibway community of just 621 people, took their own lives in September, 1990. Their deaths were a wrenching blow in a community still grieving for four youth who had hung themselves during the previous year. Suicide is a tragedy that occurs in the First Nation communities of Northern Ontario with frightening regularity. The Sioux Lookout Zone Hospital, which serves Weagamow and 26 other Native communities, reported 143 attempted and 10 known suicides in 1990. And these are probably only a fraction of the actual suicides if, as Jarvis and Boldt (1982) suggest, violent deaths involving alcohol drownings, traffic fatalities and victim induced homicides are commonly miscategorized as accidents or crimes.	No evidence	x	young adult	x	unknown	No evidence	na	No evidence	x	unknown	na	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	na	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	na	na	na	No evidence	hanging	x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	na	x	na	na	No evidence	more often men	x	No evidence		no evidence	completion	x	No evidence	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	"""blow to the community"""	x	x	unknown	x	x	x	x	not stated	6,rate	x	x	x	No evidence	unknown	unknown	No evidence	unknown	secondhand
1909	zgarfield	Cultural model	Ojibwa	see Binmore																																No evidence				No evidence															No evidence			x 																								
1909	syme	Cultural model	Ojibwa	see Binmore	No evidence	x			interpersonal confli,death loved one,rejection,other	Evidence for	sexual abuse	Evidence for		pityingly,unknown,fearfully	emic	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for		Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	unknown	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	na	na	substance abuse	No evidence		x	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	na	kin,potential mates	na	unknown	Evidence for		unknown (death)	Evidence for		physical abuse,sexual abuse		x	Evidence for	na	no evidence of ailme	x	x	sexual abuse	negative feelings about self resulting from unemployment and lack of integration	high suicide rate, assoc. alcoholism, assoc. unemplyment, assoc. drug use	no	Evidence for see text	"The biggest problem for Native youth today is that they feel hopeless,"" "	x	x	not stated	1	substance abuse	"may lead others to suicide
causes pain to community and family
raises concern in the community"	x	Evidence for	unknown	no	Evidence for	unknown	
