id	coder	content_type	culture	extract	Conflict	Evidence_Mental_Illness	Evidence_of_burdensomeness	Fitness_threat	High_RP	Low_RP	Low_lethality	Married	Motive_better_off_kin	Motive_harm_others	Motive_leverage	Motive_make_others_better_off	Outcome_better_off	Outcome_change	Outcome_others_harmed	Public_SB	SA_fitness	aggression	powerlessness520	zgarfield	Cultural model	Bagisu	"The ancestors are believed to be able to cause a suicide, indirectly, by making life unbearable for their descendant. A person coming into contact with the spot where it took place or with the means used to cause it may be virtually contaminated and may himself commit suicide or suffer misfortune; it is also dangerous for the close kin and agnates of the suicide."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence520	syme	Cultural model	Bagisu	"The ancestors are believed to be able to cause a suicide, indirectly, by making life unbearable for their descendant. A person coming into contact with the spot where it took place or with the means used to cause it may be virtually contaminated and may himself commit suicide or suffer misfortune; it is also dangerous for the close kin and agnates of the suicide."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence521	zgarfield	Cultural model	Bagisu	A person coming into contact with the spot where it took place or with the means used to cause it may be virtually contaminated and may himself commit suicide or suffer misfortune...	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence521	syme	Cultural model	Bagisu	A person coming into contact with the spot where it took place or with the means used to cause it may be virtually contaminated and may himself commit suicide or suffer misfortune...	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence522	zgarfield	Cultural model	Bagisu	"The body is disposed of with the minimum of ritual. Only close kin attend the funeral, no drums are beaten and no mourning observed. The name of the suicide should be avoided and is not mentioned in sacrifices to the ancestors. No child may be named after a suicide. Formerly, before the introduction of burial [p. 50] practices, the corpse was thrown into thick bush where no one would be likely to come across the bones, for they carried evil. Every attempt is made to blot out the memory of the unfortunate act."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence522	syme	Cultural model	Bagisu	"The body is disposed of with the minimum of ritual. Only close kin attend the funeral, no drums are beaten and no mourning observed. The name of the suicide should be avoided and is not mentioned in sacrifices to the ancestors. No child may be named after a suicide. Formerly, before the introduction of burial [p. 50] practices, the corpse was thrown into thick bush where no one would be likely to come across the bones, for they carried evil. Every attempt is made to blot out the memory of the unfortunate act."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence524	zgarfield	Cultural model	Bagisu	"Indeed, it is often feared that a woman will resort to desperate measures if refused a divorce, so that suicide, running away or even cursing herself are often threatened by women who meet with initial resistance from their kin. (13) Though women occasionally do have a violent response, sometimes beating and even killing their husbands, the violence most feared in such situations is that of suicide. While the inquest files reveal that men commit suicide (as well as murder) more frequently than women, with 70% of the suicides recorded being those of men, a woman tempted to violence is more likely to commit suicide than murder. La Fontaine's figures (1960b: 127) show that over twice as many women commit suicide as murder (whereas men committed murder in 141 cases as compared with forty suicides). The situation in the 1960s was much the same and threats of suicide by women are hard for men to counter or ignore."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for524	syme	Cultural model	Bagisu	"Indeed, it is often feared that a woman will resort to desperate measures if refused a divorce, so that suicide, running away or even cursing herself are often threatened by women who meet with initial resistance from their kin. (13) Though women occasionally do have a violent response, sometimes beating and even killing their husbands, the violence most feared in such situations is that of suicide. While the inquest files reveal that men commit suicide (as well as murder) more frequently than women, with 70% of the suicides recorded being those of men, a woman tempted to violence is more likely to commit suicide than murder. La Fontaine's figures (1960b: 127) show that over twice as many women commit suicide as murder (whereas men committed murder in 141 cases as compared with forty suicides). The situation in the 1960s was much the same and threats of suicide by women are hard for men to counter or ignore."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for525	zgarfield	Cultural model	Bagisu	"When a man committed suicide in his house, the house was broken down and burned. If, however, he hanged himself on a tree, even if it was near his house, the body was cast into the grass, the tree was cut down and its roots dug up and burned near the place, but the people went on living in the house. The reason given for the destruction and burning was that the place would influence others to commit the same deed, for the house or tree was considered to convey infection.When a man committed suicide in his house, the house was broken down and burned. If, however, he hanged himself on a tree, even if it was near his house, the body was cast into the grass, the tree was cut down and its roots dug up and burned near the place, but the people went on living in the house. The reason given for the destruction and burning was that the place would influence others to commit the same deed, for the house or tree was considered to convey infection."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence525	syme	Cultural model	Bagisu	"When a man committed suicide in his house, the house was broken down and burned. If, however, he hanged himself on a tree, even if it was near his house, the body was cast into the grass, the tree was cut down and its roots dug up and burned near the place, but the people went on living in the house. The reason given for the destruction and burning was that the place would influence others to commit the same deed, for the house or tree was considered to convey infection.When a man committed suicide in his house, the house was broken down and burned. If, however, he hanged himself on a tree, even if it was near his house, the body was cast into the grass, the tree was cut down and its roots dug up and burned near the place, but the people went on living in the house. The reason given for the destruction and burning was that the place would influence others to commit the same deed, for the house or tree was considered to convey infection."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence526	zgarfield	Cultural model	Bagisu	"If a wife hanged herself in her house, the husband was accused of being the cause. He was despoiled of all his possessions and his house was broken down"	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence526	syme	Cultural model	Bagisu	"If a wife hanged herself in her house, the husband was accused of being the cause. He was despoiled of all his possessions and his house was broken down"	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence527	zgarfield	Cultural model	Banyoro	"Suicide is not uncommon in Bunyoro, especially among [p. 180] women. It is almost invariably carried out by hanging from a tree. The proper mode of burial is to dig a grave directly under the tree so that when the rope or cloth is cut the corpse falls directly into it. The tree has to be uprooted and completely burned; if this is not done it is believed that it may exercise an evil influence, (59) and other people will be drawn to hang themselves on it."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence527	syme	Cultural model	Banyoro	"Suicide is not uncommon in Bunyoro, especially among [p. 180] women. It is almost invariably carried out by hanging from a tree. The proper mode of burial is to dig a grave directly under the tree so that when the rope or cloth is cut the corpse falls directly into it. The tree has to be uprooted and completely burned; if this is not done it is believed that it may exercise an evil influence, (59) and other people will be drawn to hang themselves on it."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence528	zgarfield	Cultural model	Banyoro	"(2) It is still not uncommon for girls to be forced into marriages against their will, and I have recorded cases of suicide arising from this cause"	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for528	syme	Cultural model	Banyoro	"(2) It is still not uncommon for girls to be forced into marriages against their will, and I have recorded cases of suicide arising from this cause"	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for529	zgarfield	Cultural model	Banyoro	"If the king himself became ill, this was kept a closely guarded secret and, according to tradition, if his illness seemed likely to be fatal he would be expected to hasten his end by drinking poison. It was believed that a king who suffered any physical injury involving mutilation or incapacity, such as a wound in battle, could not continue to reign; if the injury were not quickly fatal he would be given poison. When he grew old and feeble and was unable to carry out his duties properly he should either take poison or he would be killed by one or more of his wives. (1) It is impossible to be certain whether any kings actually killed themselves, or were killed, in such ways as these, though I think that it is not unlikely that they were. But whether they were or not, it is of interest that the kingship was thought about in this way. Like [p. 106] the Mugabe of Ankole, the Mukama was not supposed to turn over while in bed, lest some disaster befall the country. This was, of course, because any imperfection or weakness in the king was thought to involve a corresponding danger to the kingdom."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence529	syme	Cultural model	Banyoro	"If the king himself became ill, this was kept a closely guarded secret and, according to tradition, if his illness seemed likely to be fatal he would be expected to hasten his end by drinking poison. It was believed that a king who suffered any physical injury involving mutilation or incapacity, such as a wound in battle, could not continue to reign; if the injury were not quickly fatal he would be given poison. When he grew old and feeble and was unable to carry out his duties properly he should either take poison or he would be killed by one or more of his wives. (1) It is impossible to be certain whether any kings actually killed themselves, or were killed, in such ways as these, though I think that it is not unlikely that they were. But whether they were or not, it is of interest that the kingship was thought about in this way. Like [p. 106] the Mugabe of Ankole, the Mukama was not supposed to turn over while in bed, lest some disaster befall the country. This was, of course, because any imperfection or weakness in the king was thought to involve a corresponding danger to the kingdom."	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence531	zgarfield	Cultural model	Banyoro	"The ghost of anyone who had been wrongfully accused and had committed suicide was very dangerous, even the ghost of a woman being feared under these circumstances. A woman who had been wrongfully accused of adultery would go and hang herself, and her ghost would then be a malignant influence. Her body was buried as near the place of her death as possible that the ghost might be destroyed or confined to that locality. If she hanged herself on a tree, the body was buried just clear of the roots, the tree was cut down and its roots were dug up; the whole was then burned to ashes and the relatives had to pay ample compensation to the chief on whose land the deed had been done."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence531	syme	Cultural model	Banyoro	"The ghost of anyone who had been wrongfully accused and had committed suicide was very dangerous, even the ghost of a woman being feared under these circumstances. A woman who had been wrongfully accused of adultery would go and hang herself, and her ghost would then be a malignant influence. Her body was buried as near the place of her death as possible that the ghost might be destroyed or confined to that locality. If she hanged herself on a tree, the body was buried just clear of the roots, the tree was cut down and its roots were dug up; the whole was then burned to ashes and the relatives had to pay ample compensation to the chief on whose land the deed had been done."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence532	zgarfield	Cultural model	Banyoro	"Suicide was common among both men and women. Among the pastoral tribes a man would hang himself or strangle himself because he had been discovered in some theft... ...or because he had by unfair means obtained a cow from another man and did not wish to return it......or because he had been [p. 66] forced to part with cattle as a fine...Any of these causes would be quite sufficient to induce him to strangle himself by tying his loin cloth or some other article round his neck. If he did the deed in the house, the house had to be destroyed and the main posts and the central rings, which formed the apex of the roof, burned. The rest of the materials might be used again for building. The body was buried quite near the house in which the deed had been committed. If he hanged himself on a tree, his relatives had to pay the chief of the district a sum of money, and had then to cut down the tree and dig up the roots. The body was buried near the tree, just far enough away to give the men room to dig up the roots. The tree and its roots were burned on the spot and no traces left, lest some other person might be influenced by them to destroy himself."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for532	syme	Cultural model	Banyoro	"Suicide was common among both men and women. Among the pastoral tribes a man would hang himself or strangle himself because he had been discovered in some theft... ...or because he had by unfair means obtained a cow from another man and did not wish to return it......or because he had been [p. 66] forced to part with cattle as a fine...Any of these causes would be quite sufficient to induce him to strangle himself by tying his loin cloth or some other article round his neck. If he did the deed in the house, the house had to be destroyed and the main posts and the central rings, which formed the apex of the roof, burned. The rest of the materials might be used again for building. The body was buried quite near the house in which the deed had been committed. If he hanged himself on a tree, his relatives had to pay the chief of the district a sum of money, and had then to cut down the tree and dig up the roots. The body was buried near the tree, just far enough away to give the men room to dig up the roots. The tree and its roots were burned on the spot and no traces left, lest some other person might be influenced by them to destroy himself."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for536	zgarfield	Cultural model	Banyoro	In olden times it was unusual for the king to lie ill for any length of time: he would call his medicine-man and from him obtain a cup of poison which he drank and which ended his life in a few minutes.	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence536	syme	Cultural model	Banyoro	In olden times it was unusual for the king to lie ill for any length of time: he would call his medicine-man and from him obtain a cup of poison which he drank and which ended his life in a few minutes.	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence537	zgarfield	Cultural model	Bena	"When a man commits suicide, certain precautions must be taken against the evil power believed to remain in the instrument of death and to pervade the scene of the tragedy, endangering the lives of other people. This constitutes an excellent example of the ""infectious"" nature of the supernatural--the malevolent force which induced one suicide, yet another manifestation of the impersonal mulungu, remains active, residing in the objects asociated with the death and capable of exerting its baneful influence on some other victim. A medicine-man is therefore called in to remove the danger. He prepares a concoction in a pot, into which he then puts the rope or weapon used by the suicide. After that he makes the dead man's relatives drink some of the evil-dispelling liquid, with a view to preventing further suicides in the family, and finally he disposes of the rope or weapon by throwing it away into a river or swamp or burying it. Next, the site of the tragedy receives attention. If the man hanged himself from a tree, that tree must go, roots and all. If he killed himself in a house, the building with all its contents must be destroyed. So runs the rule, but common practice diverges somewhat from the strait path. As one informant [p. 130] succinctly put it, ""The house is demolished--if it is a bad one. Its contents and all the dead man's goods are destroyed--unless somebody wants them. Of course, in the old days everybody followed custom strictly."" We take leave to wonder a little about those law-abiding ancestors; from all accounts, neither before nor since can the world have seen such paragons. In the sadly degenerate present, falling a long way short of their heroic forefathers, the Wabena cannot bring themselves to such a pitch of self-sacrifice: fortunate are they that the obliging medicine-man can, for a consideration, dispel the evil power which haunts the infected objects and render them once more harmless and fit for use by ordinary people!"	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence537	syme	Cultural model	Bena	"When a man commits suicide, certain precautions must be taken against the evil power believed to remain in the instrument of death and to pervade the scene of the tragedy, endangering the lives of other people. This constitutes an excellent example of the ""infectious"" nature of the supernatural--the malevolent force which induced one suicide, yet another manifestation of the impersonal mulungu, remains active, residing in the objects asociated with the death and capable of exerting its baneful influence on some other victim. A medicine-man is therefore called in to remove the danger. He prepares a concoction in a pot, into which he then puts the rope or weapon used by the suicide. After that he makes the dead man's relatives drink some of the evil-dispelling liquid, with a view to preventing further suicides in the family, and finally he disposes of the rope or weapon by throwing it away into a river or swamp or burying it. Next, the site of the tragedy receives attention. If the man hanged himself from a tree, that tree must go, roots and all. If he killed himself in a house, the building with all its contents must be destroyed. So runs the rule, but common practice diverges somewhat from the strait path. As one informant [p. 130] succinctly put it, ""The house is demolished--if it is a bad one. Its contents and all the dead man's goods are destroyed--unless somebody wants them. Of course, in the old days everybody followed custom strictly."" We take leave to wonder a little about those law-abiding ancestors; from all accounts, neither before nor since can the world have seen such paragons. In the sadly degenerate present, falling a long way short of their heroic forefathers, the Wabena cannot bring themselves to such a pitch of self-sacrifice: fortunate are they that the obliging medicine-man can, for a consideration, dispel the evil power which haunts the infected objects and render them once more harmless and fit for use by ordinary people!"	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence30	zgarfield	Case	Banyoro	"In 1861, when Speke entered the country of Kitara, Kamrasi was at the height of his power. He ruled until 1870, and when he died his successor Kabarega spent several months fighting with his brothers for the throne. He was the last king to gain his throne by the old custom of fighting and killing all rivals. Emin Pasha spoke very highly of Kabarega, but this monarch had an inveterate dislike of white men and when, at the invitation of king Mwanga of Buganda, Captain Lugard and Mr Jackson, of the Imperial British East Africa Company, entered Buganda in 1890, Kabarega made much trouble by frequent raids on its borders. At length a strong body of British and native troops was sent against him; he was driven from his capital and for some years wandered about the country, constantly fleeing from the British forces. In 1897 Mwanga, having rebelled, was forced to flee from Buganda and joined Kabarega. Some months later both kings were captured and sent into exile. Kabarega fought bravely and was only taken prisoner when his right arm had been shattered and he could no longer fire his gun. His arm was amputated, much against his will, and he made a final attempt to follow the tradition of his ancestors and, when wounded, take his own life. The present king, Andereya, who was then a young man, had been taken prisoner with his father, and during the night after the operation, Kabarega compelled him to tear the bandages from his arm so that he might bleed to death. His plan almost succeeded, but the guard at the door, becoming suspicious, looked in and discovered what was going on. The doctor was summoned and the bleeding stopped. A soldier was placed in charge of Kabarega, and his son was removed to another room and placed under guard."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for30	syme	Case	Banyoro	"In 1861, when Speke entered the country of Kitara, Kamrasi was at the height of his power. He ruled until 1870, and when he died his successor Kabarega spent several months fighting with his brothers for the throne. He was the last king to gain his throne by the old custom of fighting and killing all rivals. Emin Pasha spoke very highly of Kabarega, but this monarch had an inveterate dislike of white men and when, at the invitation of king Mwanga of Buganda, Captain Lugard and Mr Jackson, of the Imperial British East Africa Company, entered Buganda in 1890, Kabarega made much trouble by frequent raids on its borders. At length a strong body of British and native troops was sent against him; he was driven from his capital and for some years wandered about the country, constantly fleeing from the British forces. In 1897 Mwanga, having rebelled, was forced to flee from Buganda and joined Kabarega. Some months later both kings were captured and sent into exile. Kabarega fought bravely and was only taken prisoner when his right arm had been shattered and he could no longer fire his gun. His arm was amputated, much against his will, and he made a final attempt to follow the tradition of his ancestors and, when wounded, take his own life. The present king, Andereya, who was then a young man, had been taken prisoner with his father, and during the night after the operation, Kabarega compelled him to tear the bandages from his arm so that he might bleed to death. His plan almost succeeded, but the guard at the door, becoming suspicious, looked in and discovered what was going on. The doctor was summoned and the bleeding stopped. A soldier was placed in charge of Kabarega, and his son was removed to another room and placed under guard."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence for543	zgarfield	Cultural model	Igbo	"People dying as the result of accident; women dying in childbirth; lunatics, suicides and those who have been murdered, drowned or burned are considered as having come to their untimely ends by ""Onwu Ekwensu"", that is, by the instrumentality of the Devil. None of these may be rubbed with ""ufie"", and they must be disposed of without delay. Should, by chance, any rubbing be done for one of these, it is done with ""edo"", a brilliant yellow stain obtained from wood prepared in the same manner as camwood dye. They must be buried outside the confines of the town as befits those whose death is of the Devil. In the case of a suicide, it is essential, too, that the culprit's house be ceremonially purified."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence543	syme	Cultural model	Igbo	"People dying as the result of accident; women dying in childbirth; lunatics, suicides and those who have been murdered, drowned or burned are considered as having come to their untimely ends by ""Onwu Ekwensu"", that is, by the instrumentality of the Devil. None of these may be rubbed with ""ufie"", and they must be disposed of without delay. Should, by chance, any rubbing be done for one of these, it is done with ""edo"", a brilliant yellow stain obtained from wood prepared in the same manner as camwood dye. They must be buried outside the confines of the town as befits those whose death is of the Devil. In the case of a suicide, it is essential, too, that the culprit's house be ceremonially purified."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence544	zgarfield	Case	Igbo	"In earlier days it used to be related that, in certain parts, it was not unknown for a woman to make arrangements whereby she secured, some time before she died, the consolation of the prospect of a worthy burial. The thought that everything was in order for the attainment of this desired end brought great relief, but it also had its more sinister aspect. The woman had to complete her plans while still capable of doing her part; they could not be postponed too long, that is, until her activities were curtailed by old age. Moreover, by that time, she might find herself impoverished and unable to raise funds. With these thoughts in mind, she consulted with her son, or some male friend, and planned the programme for her funeral. He undertook to fulfil her wishes; she, on her part, compensating him for his trouble, and defraying the calculated cost. When all was settled to her satisfaction, she was content, and signified that she was now ready to die. Generally speaking, the time of waiting was not long--a draught of poison either self-administered, or by the assistance of another person, brought her quietly to her grave. All arrangements for this emergency having been previously ordered, there was no hindrance to the fulfilment of the old woman's wishes. The ""Second Burial"" rites on her behalf could be conducted without undue delay. This is the substance of statements made thirty years ago, but proof to substantiate it is not now forthcoming. At the time, it was stated in all seriousness as being a custom among some of [p. 281] the Ibo people living in the Aguleri-Nando area. Just possibly it might have been an imported idea from the Igarra country."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence544	syme	Case	Igbo	"In earlier days it used to be related that, in certain parts, it was not unknown for a woman to make arrangements whereby she secured, some time before she died, the consolation of the prospect of a worthy burial. The thought that everything was in order for the attainment of this desired end brought great relief, but it also had its more sinister aspect. The woman had to complete her plans while still capable of doing her part; they could not be postponed too long, that is, until her activities were curtailed by old age. Moreover, by that time, she might find herself impoverished and unable to raise funds. With these thoughts in mind, she consulted with her son, or some male friend, and planned the programme for her funeral. He undertook to fulfil her wishes; she, on her part, compensating him for his trouble, and defraying the calculated cost. When all was settled to her satisfaction, she was content, and signified that she was now ready to die. Generally speaking, the time of waiting was not long--a draught of poison either self-administered, or by the assistance of another person, brought her quietly to her grave. All arrangements for this emergency having been previously ordered, there was no hindrance to the fulfilment of the old woman's wishes. The ""Second Burial"" rites on her behalf could be conducted without undue delay. This is the substance of statements made thirty years ago, but proof to substantiate it is not now forthcoming. At the time, it was stated in all seriousness as being a custom among some of [p. 281] the Ibo people living in the Aguleri-Nando area. Just possibly it might have been an imported idea from the Igarra country."	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence545	zgarfield	Cultural model	Igbo	"Basden reports that an Ibo woman, bereaved of her husband or child is likely to work herself into a state of frenzy and cannot be left alone lest she injure herself [p.345] or even commit suicide while temporarily insane (1966:270)."	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence545	syme	Cultural model	Igbo	"Basden reports that an Ibo woman, bereaved of her husband or child is likely to work herself into a state of frenzy and cannot be left alone lest she injure herself [p.345] or even commit suicide while temporarily insane (1966:270)."	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence546	zgarfield	Cultural model	Igbo	"Onitsha people say that the father fears that a son will succumb from ikwa alili if he is punished too severely. Alili refers to a ""wounding"" of the boy's independent spirit which maintains his life; ""to cry from wounded pride"" is how some Onitsha people translate it. When punished unexpectedly, the child feels very piqued and he may pine away and die."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for546	syme	Cultural model	Igbo	"Onitsha people say that the father fears that a son will succumb from ikwa alili if he is punished too severely. Alili refers to a ""wounding"" of the boy's independent spirit which maintains his life; ""to cry from wounded pride"" is how some Onitsha people translate it. When punished unexpectedly, the child feels very piqued and he may pine away and die."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence547	zgarfield	Cultural model	Igbo	"Immediate retaliation was made by the kin of the murdered man on any member of the murderer's kin, and the property of the immediate relatives of the murderer was pillaged. In consequence of this rule the murderer was expected by his own family to commit suicide immediately, in order to save the whole family from attack and their property from spoliation. If the murderer failed to do this, the whole of his kin had to seek refuge in flight. When the anger of the murdered man's kin had subsided, the kin of the murderer could return on condition that the murderer, or some other member of his family, committed suicide."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence for547	syme	Cultural model	Igbo	"Immediate retaliation was made by the kin of the murdered man on any member of the murderer's kin, and the property of the immediate relatives of the murderer was pillaged. In consequence of this rule the murderer was expected by his own family to commit suicide immediately, in order to save the whole family from attack and their property from spoliation. If the murderer failed to do this, the whole of his kin had to seek refuge in flight. When the anger of the murdered man's kin had subsided, the kin of the murderer could return on condition that the murderer, or some other member of his family, committed suicide."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence for548	zgarfield	Cultural model	Igbo	"(1) But in some cases if a man had become a notorious thief he might be sold to the Aro by his own brother. In others, though a man would refrain from selling a member of his own extended-family, he would have less compunction about selling a member of another extended-family of his own kindred (Oduma). At Awgu the head of a kindred might, at the instance of the elders of the village, order a thief to pack up his things and accompany Aro traders as their slave. Rather than accept this fate many thieves committed suicide."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence for548	syme	Cultural model	Igbo	"(1) But in some cases if a man had become a notorious thief he might be sold to the Aro by his own brother. In others, though a man would refrain from selling a member of his own extended-family, he would have less compunction about selling a member of another extended-family of his own kindred (Oduma). At Awgu the head of a kindred might, at the instance of the elders of the village, order a thief to pack up his things and accompany Aro traders as their slave. Rather than accept this fate many thieves committed suicide."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for549	zgarfield	Cultural model	Igbo	"Whether there were extenuating circumstances or not, the murderer might in some communities be called on to hang himself if he reappeared in the town. Or he might be required to produce some member of his family-group to hang himself in his stead. (2) But if a substitute hanged himself the murderer (at Owele) had to make atonement by the following rite. He summoned the priest of Ala to his house and presented him with a white chicken and a yam."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence for549	syme	Cultural model	Igbo	"Whether there were extenuating circumstances or not, the murderer might in some communities be called on to hang himself if he reappeared in the town. Or he might be required to produce some member of his family-group to hang himself in his stead. (2) But if a substitute hanged himself the murderer (at Owele) had to make atonement by the following rite. He summoned the priest of Ala to his house and presented him with a white chicken and a yam."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence550	zgarfield	Cultural model	Igbo	"In cases of suicide it was usual to employ a man from some other town to remove the body of the suicide from the tree on which he had hanged himself. For suicide was classed as an 'abominable' offence, and the suicide's relatives would be defiled if they touched his body. The body was buried in 'the bush of evil', and a diviner was consulted with a view to ascertaining the cause of the suicide and the best means of appeasing the anger of Ala."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence550	syme	Cultural model	Igbo	"In cases of suicide it was usual to employ a man from some other town to remove the body of the suicide from the tree on which he had hanged himself. For suicide was classed as an 'abominable' offence, and the suicide's relatives would be defiled if they touched his body. The body was buried in 'the bush of evil', and a diviner was consulted with a view to ascertaining the cause of the suicide and the best means of appeasing the anger of Ala."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence551	zgarfield	Cultural model	Igbo	"At Isu, if a man of one group stole a yam or chicken from a man of another, the owner of the stolen property had the option of deciding whether he would sell the thief or call on him to hang himself. But though he might call on the thief to hang himself the thief might refuse, provided his kindred supported him and was strong enough to defend itself. In this way fighting between two groups might result, [p. 217] and would continue until the elders of the whole commune, accompanied by the priest of Ala, intervened. A general meeting would then be held to investigate the whole affair, and if it were clear that the man charged with theft had been justly charged, the spokesman of the assembly would declare that, if the thief's kindred continued to protect him, then all must conclude that he had been delegated by his kindred to steal on their behalf! The thief's kindred would thus be forced by public opinion to call on the thief to hang himself."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence551	syme	Cultural model	Igbo	"At Isu, if a man of one group stole a yam or chicken from a man of another, the owner of the stolen property had the option of deciding whether he would sell the thief or call on him to hang himself. But though he might call on the thief to hang himself the thief might refuse, provided his kindred supported him and was strong enough to defend itself. In this way fighting between two groups might result, [p. 217] and would continue until the elders of the whole commune, accompanied by the priest of Ala, intervened. A general meeting would then be held to investigate the whole affair, and if it were clear that the man charged with theft had been justly charged, the spokesman of the assembly would declare that, if the thief's kindred continued to protect him, then all must conclude that he had been delegated by his kindred to steal on their behalf! The thief's kindred would thus be forced by public opinion to call on the thief to hang himself."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence552	zgarfield	Cultural model	Igbo	"On the conjugal level, having children is important both for personal satisfaction and for attaining the respect of the community. A childless man or woman must be addressed by his own name rather than by a patronymic, and this is a source of embarrassment and humiliation. A childless woman is sometimes badly treated by her co-wives, who feel that she should carry a heavier burden of household and farm work than they because she has not given their husband a child. A childless man is in a serious plight, for his wives are likely to leave him, and he faces the risk of having no one to help him in his old age and to care for his spirit after death, since only a person with grown children can be given a second funeral. Childlessness is felt so keenly that some persons commit suicide rather than live without children. Discrimination against childless persons, however, applies only to those who have never been a parent, not to those whose children have died."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence552	syme	Cultural model	Igbo	"On the conjugal level, having children is important both for personal satisfaction and for attaining the respect of the community. A childless man or woman must be addressed by his own name rather than by a patronymic, and this is a source of embarrassment and humiliation. A childless woman is sometimes badly treated by her co-wives, who feel that she should carry a heavier burden of household and farm work than they because she has not given their husband a child. A childless man is in a serious plight, for his wives are likely to leave him, and he faces the risk of having no one to help him in his old age and to care for his spirit after death, since only a person with grown children can be given a second funeral. Childlessness is felt so keenly that some persons commit suicide rather than live without children. Discrimination against childless persons, however, applies only to those who have never been a parent, not to those whose children have died."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for42	zgarfield	Case	Igbo	"Eze Okigbo, the 'big man' in Nnobi at the time, had heard shocking stories about the activities of White men and had sworn never to set eyes on them. He therefore declined to meet them when they invaded Nnobi, and was consequently taken by force to the central market-place and publicly whipped. He went back to his obi, took poison and died."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for42	syme	Case	Igbo	"Eze Okigbo, the 'big man' in Nnobi at the time, had heard shocking stories about the activities of White men and had sworn never to set eyes on them. He therefore declined to meet them when they invaded Nnobi, and was consequently taken by force to the central market-place and publicly whipped. He went back to his obi, took poison and died."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for43	zgarfield	Case	Igbo	"Bridegroom Commits Suicide It was a tragic end of a marriage ceremony, at Umunze in Aguata local government area of Anambra State, over the weekend, when a 30-year old bridegroom committed suicide, on the eve of his traditional marriage ceremony. The man from Umucheke quarters of Ururo village, Umunze, had on the fateful Saturday morning, given his elder brother some 1500 naira [Nigerian currency, then exchanging at a rate of 3 naira: 1 US dollar] being the bride price he intended paying during the ceremony. The elder brother, in expressing his happiness over the marriage, asked his deceased younger brother to keep back his money and that as he was taking a position as the father, he would pay the bride price. Arrangement concluded, the deceased went to take his bath while his friends who would accompany him to the bride's house waited. As the man stayed longer at the 'bathroom,' the people forced the door open only to find the man hanging from the top of the roof. 'Daily Star' also gathered that, at the time of this discovery, the bride's family had concluded their own arrangements to welcome the suitor and his relations. Some elders who spoke to the 'Star' alleged that the deceased had been warned against the marriage because he had a wife of 'mermaid' contracted inside the water before his birth, but the man's relations did not believe. Also, his mother who owns a spiritual church in the area had allegedly assured the son of deliverance from the 'mermaid.' It was also gathered that the man went insane when he attempted to marry some years ago. He was cured but the marriage negotiations collapsed. --'Our Correspondent,' Daily Star (Nov. 16, 1987) This version of the male water marriage story is interesting for several reasons; notably that it combines elements of local, patrilineal culture (the interchange between senior and junior brother) with newer social and religious arrangements (the suicide's mother 'owns' a spiritual church and purports to exercise control over mermaids).16 In the first part of the story, the would-be bridegroom demonstrates his responsibility to his lineage senior by offering to pay a large sum of bridewealth. Considering what is revealed about his previous problems with marriage in the last paragraph, this gesture is not an empty one; it denotes a commitment to go through with the marriage for its own sake as well as for that of the lineage. The senior brother ('taking a position as the father') returns his younger brother's contribution and insists [p. 128] upon paying the bridewealth himself; showing that the marriage is of corporate, not only individual interest. It is also a token of corporate confidence in the ability of a lineage mate to get on successfully with the important business of marriage and the extension of the patrilineal compound. This is surely important, since we know that the younger brother has not been able to fulfill these lineage obligations previously. His elder brother is not only acting in loco parentis but telling his sibling that he is willing to display his confidence in the marriage before their (possibly nervous) future in-laws. (17) This confidence, as we see, is misplaced. Suicide is considered by Igbo-speaking peoples to be one of three unforgivable nso ani (abominations against the earth), along with wilful murder and stealing. Suicide is a shameful, public death that pollutes the entire lineage--necessitating, in the past, the destruction of the patrilineage compound and other property, as well as exile for lineage members. Hanging himself in the 'bathroom' is especially evocative: the erring 'wife' of a water spirit kills himself during his last connection with water and purification, just before he is to betray his mermaid with a human woman. Whether he 'met' the spirit in the bathroom when he poured out water in a basin--one of the ways that diviners 'call' Mami Wata into the world of human beings--or whether his impending state as 'wife' to a powerful spirit and husband to a human wife was simply too much of a contradictory one to bear, he was evidently forced into taking the tragic step. I rather think it was the poetic quality of the suicide (and the mermaid's revenge) that earned the story its front page status in the Daily Star. Instead of becoming ritually purified and prepared to step into one of the most important roles of an Igbo man, helping to extend the lineage through time and space, the bridegroom became nso (abominable) and effectively ended his participation in any lineage future. A suicide cannot become an ancestral force; in an older era, his body would be taken out and placed by strangers in ofia ojoo, 'the bad bush,' to decay ignominously with other evil objects and bodies. Although his Christianity might save him from this fate in late 1980s Nigeria, his body would still be treated without the respect accorded to that of a person who had died married and who could be buried properly by his wife and (especially) his children. And, as we have seen, his death could not even be kept private, but became a public spectacle for traders to talk about in the Onitsha and Enugu marketplaces--and for anthropologists to write about, as well. One fascinating twist to the suicidal bridegroom's tale is the importance of women in his life and death. It seems that he is caught between [p. 129] two spiritual forces: his mermaid spouse and his evangelical mother. In some sense, the story is really about two women--one a human, the other a spiritual force--testing their powers against each other through the person of a young man. I have argued elsewhere (Bastian 1992, chapter 3) that young men in contemporary Igbo society are often caught and used as pawns in esoteric battles waged by (usually male) elders, but there is another, well-known Igbo familial conflict echoed here--that between mother and daughter-in-law. As in most patrilineal societies where wives remain 'strangers' in their husband's lineage, a good deal of a woman's power in Igbo must be exercised either through her husband or her sons. Since husbands may have several wives or unofficial female spouses, maintaining control over a son can be less taxing than trying to hold sway over a fickle spouse. And, of course, the ideology of deference to husbands requires Igbo-speaking women to exercise great subtlety and tact in imposing their wills over those of their spouses. Controlling a son is both simpler and more rewarding over time; the husband is likely to die, and his authority can pass to his wife's male children. But there is always a potential fly in the mother's carefully tended ointment. The person who most threatens uterine authority is the daughter-in-law, the new woman/stranger in the lineage compound with a vested interest in the older woman's son. In the case above, where the daughter-in-law is a powerful, capricious spiritual force (and not even a girl who could be bullied or cajoled into submission), she offers more of a threat to her mother-in-law than might usually be expected. The mother and daughter-in-law struggle covertly outlined in the newspaper article was, perhaps, more grim than most--after all, we are told that the young man was married in the water 'before birth,' that he was, in effect, an ogbaanje mmili. His mother was thus faced with a mature and dangerous daughter-in-law almost before she had solidified her own position in her marital household, much less in her son's emotional life. The newspaper account is not detailed enough to give us the mother's biography, but I would not be surprised to learn that her interest in spiritual churches dated from the time when she discovered that her child had contracted a water marriage. Certainly she had every motivation not only to embrace charismatic Christianity but to master its secrets: her hold over an important part of her uterine family depended on it. Towards the end of her son's life, she was even willing to take on a human female rival--encouraging her son to marry outside of the water--in the (losing) battle against her mermaid in-law. This, too, has [p.130] its precedents in the annals of Igbo mothering, since an upstart daughter-in-law can often be deflated by bringing in a younger wife. Several women of my acquaintance in the late 1980s found their marital positions of power subverted by a clever, matchmaking mother-in-law. (18) Mami Wata and her kin are not so easily diminished, however. After driving her human spouse mad in punishment for the first offense--but then evidently relenting and allowing him to be 'cured'--the spirit took more direct action on the second. Dying before he could marry or sire children, the young bridegroom was separated out forever from his lineage; he cannot reincarnate as a human being; he becomes a wild, troublesome spirit who can never be satisfied. In short, he becomes more like his onye mmili (water spirit) wife and is lost to his mother (and his patriline) permanently. This Daily Star story was much discussed in the Onitsha markets where I did my fieldwork. The consensus among youthful male traders who make up the majority population in the market system was that the suicidal bridegroom 'did well' in trying to escape from his water spouse--but that his family was wrong to disbelieve in the mermaid's power. People working in markets are thought particularly susceptible to spiritual influence, since spiritual forces are drawn to the marketplace, and these traders believed very firmly in the existence of seductive mami watas and unquiet human ghosts. (19) They had little difficulty in believing that a man's water marriage was bound to conflict with his duties to his lineage and family life. After all, those who married to suit themselves in urban Onitsha were often accused of bringing in to their own lineages, at the very least, bad influences--and sometimes dangerous witches or spirit wives. Those traders divorced or separated from their 'city wives' were sometimes unsure whether their town elders (or mothers) were not correct in the assessment. At any rate, they had all experienced the desire of 'modern girls' for luxury goods, money, and monogamy (or sexual exclusiveness), and they equated that modernity with peril. Young male traders saw the world as being full of potential mermaids, and they took the newspaper account's lessons to heart: men caught up in the battles of women rarely profit. Even male kin solidarity cannot secure male fortune when the 'strangers' in their midst begin to make trouble. Notes (16). Mami Wata is often depicted in the iconography as a mermaid. Because of this, speakers of Nigerian English tend to refer to Mami Wata or, indeed, to any water spirit as a mermaid. (17). 'Traditional' ceremonies, also known in Nigerian English as 'wine-carryings,' do not generally take place unless the personal histories and family connections of both parties have been thoroughly investigated. A young man who has 'gone insane' at a previous wedding would not look to be the best possible candidate for alliance. We may speculate that a good deal of negotiation that is not discussed in the newspaper account must have occurred before the wine-carrying could go forward. (18). An African-American woman I knew in Port Harcourt became an unknowing senior wife in her own household when her mother-in-law brought her a new 'maid' to help out after the birth of a child. Some months later the maid was revealed to be pregnant as well--and maid, husband, and mother-in-law confessed that the mother-in-law paid the 'maid's' bridewealth before her 'employment' began. (19). Afia, or the Igbo marketplace, is the most open of spaces. Igbo-speaking peoples think that everyone and everything in the world eventually passes through their markets, and, indeed, the whole world may be thought of as a marketplace. One consequence of this understanding of the market's importance is that humans who frequent the markets inevitably come in contact with spirits. Spirits 'can't make things,' as one trader explained to me, but they are attracted to the things created by human beings--as well as by the spectacle of human life itself. They come to the marketplace to buy, steal, and barter with their human counterparts; they also come simply to watch people going about their business."	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence43	syme	Case	Igbo	"Bridegroom Commits Suicide It was a tragic end of a marriage ceremony, at Umunze in Aguata local government area of Anambra State, over the weekend, when a 30-year old bridegroom committed suicide, on the eve of his traditional marriage ceremony. The man from Umucheke quarters of Ururo village, Umunze, had on the fateful Saturday morning, given his elder brother some 1500 naira [Nigerian currency, then exchanging at a rate of 3 naira: 1 US dollar] being the bride price he intended paying during the ceremony. The elder brother, in expressing his happiness over the marriage, asked his deceased younger brother to keep back his money and that as he was taking a position as the father, he would pay the bride price. Arrangement concluded, the deceased went to take his bath while his friends who would accompany him to the bride's house waited. As the man stayed longer at the 'bathroom,' the people forced the door open only to find the man hanging from the top of the roof. 'Daily Star' also gathered that, at the time of this discovery, the bride's family had concluded their own arrangements to welcome the suitor and his relations. Some elders who spoke to the 'Star' alleged that the deceased had been warned against the marriage because he had a wife of 'mermaid' contracted inside the water before his birth, but the man's relations did not believe. Also, his mother who owns a spiritual church in the area had allegedly assured the son of deliverance from the 'mermaid.' It was also gathered that the man went insane when he attempted to marry some years ago. He was cured but the marriage negotiations collapsed. --'Our Correspondent,' Daily Star (Nov. 16, 1987) This version of the male water marriage story is interesting for several reasons; notably that it combines elements of local, patrilineal culture (the interchange between senior and junior brother) with newer social and religious arrangements (the suicide's mother 'owns' a spiritual church and purports to exercise control over mermaids).16 In the first part of the story, the would-be bridegroom demonstrates his responsibility to his lineage senior by offering to pay a large sum of bridewealth. Considering what is revealed about his previous problems with marriage in the last paragraph, this gesture is not an empty one; it denotes a commitment to go through with the marriage for its own sake as well as for that of the lineage. The senior brother ('taking a position as the father') returns his younger brother's contribution and insists [p. 128] upon paying the bridewealth himself; showing that the marriage is of corporate, not only individual interest. It is also a token of corporate confidence in the ability of a lineage mate to get on successfully with the important business of marriage and the extension of the patrilineal compound. This is surely important, since we know that the younger brother has not been able to fulfill these lineage obligations previously. His elder brother is not only acting in loco parentis but telling his sibling that he is willing to display his confidence in the marriage before their (possibly nervous) future in-laws. (17) This confidence, as we see, is misplaced. Suicide is considered by Igbo-speaking peoples to be one of three unforgivable nso ani (abominations against the earth), along with wilful murder and stealing. Suicide is a shameful, public death that pollutes the entire lineage--necessitating, in the past, the destruction of the patrilineage compound and other property, as well as exile for lineage members. Hanging himself in the 'bathroom' is especially evocative: the erring 'wife' of a water spirit kills himself during his last connection with water and purification, just before he is to betray his mermaid with a human woman. Whether he 'met' the spirit in the bathroom when he poured out water in a basin--one of the ways that diviners 'call' Mami Wata into the world of human beings--or whether his impending state as 'wife' to a powerful spirit and husband to a human wife was simply too much of a contradictory one to bear, he was evidently forced into taking the tragic step. I rather think it was the poetic quality of the suicide (and the mermaid's revenge) that earned the story its front page status in the Daily Star. Instead of becoming ritually purified and prepared to step into one of the most important roles of an Igbo man, helping to extend the lineage through time and space, the bridegroom became nso (abominable) and effectively ended his participation in any lineage future. A suicide cannot become an ancestral force; in an older era, his body would be taken out and placed by strangers in ofia ojoo, 'the bad bush,' to decay ignominously with other evil objects and bodies. Although his Christianity might save him from this fate in late 1980s Nigeria, his body would still be treated without the respect accorded to that of a person who had died married and who could be buried properly by his wife and (especially) his children. And, as we have seen, his death could not even be kept private, but became a public spectacle for traders to talk about in the Onitsha and Enugu marketplaces--and for anthropologists to write about, as well. One fascinating twist to the suicidal bridegroom's tale is the importance of women in his life and death. It seems that he is caught between [p. 129] two spiritual forces: his mermaid spouse and his evangelical mother. In some sense, the story is really about two women--one a human, the other a spiritual force--testing their powers against each other through the person of a young man. I have argued elsewhere (Bastian 1992, chapter 3) that young men in contemporary Igbo society are often caught and used as pawns in esoteric battles waged by (usually male) elders, but there is another, well-known Igbo familial conflict echoed here--that between mother and daughter-in-law. As in most patrilineal societies where wives remain 'strangers' in their husband's lineage, a good deal of a woman's power in Igbo must be exercised either through her husband or her sons. Since husbands may have several wives or unofficial female spouses, maintaining control over a son can be less taxing than trying to hold sway over a fickle spouse. And, of course, the ideology of deference to husbands requires Igbo-speaking women to exercise great subtlety and tact in imposing their wills over those of their spouses. Controlling a son is both simpler and more rewarding over time; the husband is likely to die, and his authority can pass to his wife's male children. But there is always a potential fly in the mother's carefully tended ointment. The person who most threatens uterine authority is the daughter-in-law, the new woman/stranger in the lineage compound with a vested interest in the older woman's son. In the case above, where the daughter-in-law is a powerful, capricious spiritual force (and not even a girl who could be bullied or cajoled into submission), she offers more of a threat to her mother-in-law than might usually be expected. The mother and daughter-in-law struggle covertly outlined in the newspaper article was, perhaps, more grim than most--after all, we are told that the young man was married in the water 'before birth,' that he was, in effect, an ogbaanje mmili. His mother was thus faced with a mature and dangerous daughter-in-law almost before she had solidified her own position in her marital household, much less in her son's emotional life. The newspaper account is not detailed enough to give us the mother's biography, but I would not be surprised to learn that her interest in spiritual churches dated from the time when she discovered that her child had contracted a water marriage. Certainly she had every motivation not only to embrace charismatic Christianity but to master its secrets: her hold over an important part of her uterine family depended on it. Towards the end of her son's life, she was even willing to take on a human female rival--encouraging her son to marry outside of the water--in the (losing) battle against her mermaid in-law. This, too, has [p.130] its precedents in the annals of Igbo mothering, since an upstart daughter-in-law can often be deflated by bringing in a younger wife. Several women of my acquaintance in the late 1980s found their marital positions of power subverted by a clever, matchmaking mother-in-law. (18) Mami Wata and her kin are not so easily diminished, however. After driving her human spouse mad in punishment for the first offense--but then evidently relenting and allowing him to be 'cured'--the spirit took more direct action on the second. Dying before he could marry or sire children, the young bridegroom was separated out forever from his lineage; he cannot reincarnate as a human being; he becomes a wild, troublesome spirit who can never be satisfied. In short, he becomes more like his onye mmili (water spirit) wife and is lost to his mother (and his patriline) permanently. This Daily Star story was much discussed in the Onitsha markets where I did my fieldwork. The consensus among youthful male traders who make up the majority population in the market system was that the suicidal bridegroom 'did well' in trying to escape from his water spouse--but that his family was wrong to disbelieve in the mermaid's power. People working in markets are thought particularly susceptible to spiritual influence, since spiritual forces are drawn to the marketplace, and these traders believed very firmly in the existence of seductive mami watas and unquiet human ghosts. (19) They had little difficulty in believing that a man's water marriage was bound to conflict with his duties to his lineage and family life. After all, those who married to suit themselves in urban Onitsha were often accused of bringing in to their own lineages, at the very least, bad influences--and sometimes dangerous witches or spirit wives. Those traders divorced or separated from their 'city wives' were sometimes unsure whether their town elders (or mothers) were not correct in the assessment. At any rate, they had all experienced the desire of 'modern girls' for luxury goods, money, and monogamy (or sexual exclusiveness), and they equated that modernity with peril. Young male traders saw the world as being full of potential mermaids, and they took the newspaper account's lessons to heart: men caught up in the battles of women rarely profit. Even male kin solidarity cannot secure male fortune when the 'strangers' in their midst begin to make trouble. Notes (16). Mami Wata is often depicted in the iconography as a mermaid. Because of this, speakers of Nigerian English tend to refer to Mami Wata or, indeed, to any water spirit as a mermaid. (17). 'Traditional' ceremonies, also known in Nigerian English as 'wine-carryings,' do not generally take place unless the personal histories and family connections of both parties have been thoroughly investigated. A young man who has 'gone insane' at a previous wedding would not look to be the best possible candidate for alliance. We may speculate that a good deal of negotiation that is not discussed in the newspaper account must have occurred before the wine-carrying could go forward. (18). An African-American woman I knew in Port Harcourt became an unknowing senior wife in her own household when her mother-in-law brought her a new 'maid' to help out after the birth of a child. Some months later the maid was revealed to be pregnant as well--and maid, husband, and mother-in-law confessed that the mother-in-law paid the 'maid's' bridewealth before her 'employment' began. (19). Afia, or the Igbo marketplace, is the most open of spaces. Igbo-speaking peoples think that everyone and everything in the world eventually passes through their markets, and, indeed, the whole world may be thought of as a marketplace. One consequence of this understanding of the market's importance is that humans who frequent the markets inevitably come in contact with spirits. Spirits 'can't make things,' as one trader explained to me, but they are attracted to the things created by human beings--as well as by the spectacle of human life itself. They come to the marketplace to buy, steal, and barter with their human counterparts; they also come simply to watch people going about their business."	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for44	zgarfield	Case	Igbo	"The continuous line of Obis descended from Obi Chimedie gives the impression that this lineage virtually controlled the succession and had converted it into one of descent from father to son; tradition does not relate whether at the successions of these Obis other lines in Umuezearoli and Umudei put forward any candidates. Then, on the death of Obi Akazue, a conflict arose over the succession which ended in civil war. The two candidates were both from Umuezearoli, namely Diali, the son of Obi Akazue of the line of Chimedie, and Enendu of the collateral line of Diakanyo. The Chimedie line could represent Enendu's claim as contravening the convention of descent from father to son and as an attempt to weaken the unity of the Umuezearoli dynasty as against the opposing dynasty of Umudei, and they asked Enendu to withdraw in the interests of dynastic unity. It would have been more politic for Enendu to have done so but he refused and claimed the right as a descendant of Ezechima to contest the Obiship. This led to the civil war. The majority of Onitsha people supported Diali, who emerged the victor but died soon after. The Diakanyo lineage lost many lives in the fighting and were in no position to recontest the succession. Holding Enendu responsible for their losses, they told him to commit suicide, which he did, and Diali was succeeded by his brother Anazonwu."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for44	syme	Case	Igbo	"The continuous line of Obis descended from Obi Chimedie gives the impression that this lineage virtually controlled the succession and had converted it into one of descent from father to son; tradition does not relate whether at the successions of these Obis other lines in Umuezearoli and Umudei put forward any candidates. Then, on the death of Obi Akazue, a conflict arose over the succession which ended in civil war. The two candidates were both from Umuezearoli, namely Diali, the son of Obi Akazue of the line of Chimedie, and Enendu of the collateral line of Diakanyo. The Chimedie line could represent Enendu's claim as contravening the convention of descent from father to son and as an attempt to weaken the unity of the Umuezearoli dynasty as against the opposing dynasty of Umudei, and they asked Enendu to withdraw in the interests of dynastic unity. It would have been more politic for Enendu to have done so but he refused and claimed the right as a descendant of Ezechima to contest the Obiship. This led to the civil war. The majority of Onitsha people supported Diali, who emerged the victor but died soon after. The Diakanyo lineage lost many lives in the fighting and were in no position to recontest the succession. Holding Enendu responsible for their losses, they told him to commit suicide, which he did, and Diali was succeeded by his brother Anazonwu."	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence for557	zgarfield	Cultural model	Bengali	"Tambiah writes, op. cit., p. 65: ""&mldr; the 'gift of a virgin' accompanied by dowry appears to be associated with the ideal of monogamy, an ideal that is symbolized in the notion of a husband and wife being a united, inseparable pair which reached its ultimate elaboration in the institution of suttee (the widow burning herself on her husband's pyre)."""	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence557	syme	Cultural model	Bengali	"Tambiah writes, op. cit., p. 65: ""&mldr; the 'gift of a virgin' accompanied by dowry appears to be associated with the ideal of monogamy, an ideal that is symbolized in the notion of a husband and wife being a united, inseparable pair which reached its ultimate elaboration in the institution of suttee (the widow burning herself on her husband's pyre)."""	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence558	zgarfield	Cultural model	Bengali	"(7) The Hindu concept of shakti refers to the spiritual energy of women, often associated with their power of self-abnegation and suffering. The extreme expression of this belief seems once to have been the ideological basis for the custom of ""widow burning"" or sati (Chaki-Sircar 1980). This form of suicide was looked upon as the greatest expression of self-sacrifice a woman could make to honor her dead husband. The suffering of present-day widows is the legacy of sati, but instead of physical death, women have now accepted ""social death"" (see Chaki-Sircar 1980)."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence558	syme	Cultural model	Bengali	"(7) The Hindu concept of shakti refers to the spiritual energy of women, often associated with their power of self-abnegation and suffering. The extreme expression of this belief seems once to have been the ideological basis for the custom of ""widow burning"" or sati (Chaki-Sircar 1980). This form of suicide was looked upon as the greatest expression of self-sacrifice a woman could make to honor her dead husband. The suffering of present-day widows is the legacy of sati, but instead of physical death, women have now accepted ""social death"" (see Chaki-Sircar 1980)."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence563	zgarfield	Case	Okinawans	"The absence of any martial spirit save where infrequently inculcated by the Japanese was particularly apparent in the battle for Okinawa during World War II, when virtually every Japanese fought until killed or committed suicide while Okinawans were not averse to surrender when they could."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence563	syme	Case	Okinawans	"The absence of any martial spirit save where infrequently inculcated by the Japanese was particularly apparent in the battle for Okinawa during World War II, when virtually every Japanese fought until killed or committed suicide while Okinawans were not averse to surrender when they could."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence52	zgarfield	Case	Nuer	"Whether the family of the wife will support her depends on a variety of circumstances and a combination of all matters which are conventionally regarded as grounds for divorce. They may agree with her if her husband not only persistently ill-treats her but also is lax in his duties towards them or does not approach them with the respect (thek) which is due to relatives-in-law. If he has paid substantial bridewealth for her, it is, of course, in their interests that the marriage should continue, but this may be outweighed by other considerations. It is their desire too that a daughter of the house should have children, though their feeling in this respect is not so intense as that of the husband's family. Her children, although legally placed in the patrilineal lineage of their father, will be an asset to the maternal line. We have seen that in the marriage a substantial part of the bridewealth goes to the maternal kin, and the matter of the husband's potency is therefore of practical concern to them. Moreover the final consideration which will often compel them to seek a divorce, whatever the difficulties and inconveniences to themselves, is the fear that she will run away to some other part of the country, in which case they may lose not only the cattle of this marriage but the possibility of getting others from her remarriage. In extreme cases she may even commit suicide. (1) (1) This is not common, but I have known several cases, and in one instance a woman attempted to hang herself from a tree under which I was sitting in an official capacity. The intention, however, may not have been serious, but merely to draw my attention to her grievances."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for52	syme	Case	Nuer	"Whether the family of the wife will support her depends on a variety of circumstances and a combination of all matters which are conventionally regarded as grounds for divorce. They may agree with her if her husband not only persistently ill-treats her but also is lax in his duties towards them or does not approach them with the respect (thek) which is due to relatives-in-law. If he has paid substantial bridewealth for her, it is, of course, in their interests that the marriage should continue, but this may be outweighed by other considerations. It is their desire too that a daughter of the house should have children, though their feeling in this respect is not so intense as that of the husband's family. Her children, although legally placed in the patrilineal lineage of their father, will be an asset to the maternal line. We have seen that in the marriage a substantial part of the bridewealth goes to the maternal kin, and the matter of the husband's potency is therefore of practical concern to them. Moreover the final consideration which will often compel them to seek a divorce, whatever the difficulties and inconveniences to themselves, is the fear that she will run away to some other part of the country, in which case they may lose not only the cattle of this marriage but the possibility of getting others from her remarriage. In extreme cases she may even commit suicide. (1) (1) This is not common, but I have known several cases, and in one instance a woman attempted to hang herself from a tree under which I was sitting in an official capacity. The intention, however, may not have been serious, but merely to draw my attention to her grievances."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence53	zgarfield	Case	Ovimbundu	"The quarrel had begun with the proposed marriage of Anna, a step-daughter of Guilherme, and a member of his household, to Luciano, a son of the former chief Simbwyikoka and an inhabitant of the latter's village. Guilherme had no effective religious affiliation but Anna had been baptized as a Catholic, her godmother being Maria, the wife of Paulo. Luciano on the other hand was the elder of the Protestant catechetical school in Simbwyikoka village. Paulo therefore intervened to stop the marriage in accordance with the rule made by the Catholic missions against marriage with non-Catholics.... Towards the end of the argument Luciano (the former fianc of Anna) and Jeremias (the Protestant catechist from Simbwyikoka) came to the priest to ask for the repayment of the bridewealth. On the 25th Lusase, the chief of Gumba, happened to visit [p. 131] Epalanga. Told what had happened, he said that he would keep out of it, and that he had advised Guilherme to live elsewhere. In the afternoon of the same day, as heavy rain was falling, a number of people ran up and bounded on to my veranda. These included Anna, another girl (I think a sister of hers) both rather frightened, Simbwyikoka, Luciano, Paulo and some others. Anna said that Simbwyikoka was a sorcerer (3) and would kill her, and sooner than be killed by sorcery she would jump in the river. Simbwyikoka and Luciano had come to Epalanga to try and recover the 250 escudos which had been paid over in bridewealth. The catechist tried to intervene saying 'The catechist is the chief4 of everybody in the village', but nobody paid any attention to him. Eventually, as the girl continued to threaten to jump in the river, I contributed 200 escudos, and so those involved left satisfied."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for53	syme	Case	Ovimbundu	"The quarrel had begun with the proposed marriage of Anna, a step-daughter of Guilherme, and a member of his household, to Luciano, a son of the former chief Simbwyikoka and an inhabitant of the latter's village. Guilherme had no effective religious affiliation but Anna had been baptized as a Catholic, her godmother being Maria, the wife of Paulo. Luciano on the other hand was the elder of the Protestant catechetical school in Simbwyikoka village. Paulo therefore intervened to stop the marriage in accordance with the rule made by the Catholic missions against marriage with non-Catholics.... Towards the end of the argument Luciano (the former fianc of Anna) and Jeremias (the Protestant catechist from Simbwyikoka) came to the priest to ask for the repayment of the bridewealth. On the 25th Lusase, the chief of Gumba, happened to visit [p. 131] Epalanga. Told what had happened, he said that he would keep out of it, and that he had advised Guilherme to live elsewhere. In the afternoon of the same day, as heavy rain was falling, a number of people ran up and bounded on to my veranda. These included Anna, another girl (I think a sister of hers) both rather frightened, Simbwyikoka, Luciano, Paulo and some others. Anna said that Simbwyikoka was a sorcerer (3) and would kill her, and sooner than be killed by sorcery she would jump in the river. Simbwyikoka and Luciano had come to Epalanga to try and recover the 250 escudos which had been paid over in bridewealth. The catechist tried to intervene saying 'The catechist is the chief4 of everybody in the village', but nobody paid any attention to him. Eventually, as the girl continued to threaten to jump in the river, I contributed 200 escudos, and so those involved left satisfied."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence54	zgarfield	Case	Ovimbundu	"About noon the next day I found that Paulo and the catechist had returned to Epalanga and heard from them what had happened. On the way Guilherme had declared that his violent temper was to blame in having so many people arrested, apologized, and promised to go to another village. He pulled out a knife and threatened to commit suicide if this proposal was not accepted. This appeal was directed mainly to the catechist, and was reinforced by Guilherme's wife, who also threatened suicide and appealed to the catechist's feelings by pointing out that she had had two of her children baptized. This was accepted, and accordingly all turned back to the village except for Guilherme, Bartolomeu, his son Eugenio, and Wasuka's son Kuseka. Eugenio and Kuseka had been arrested for not paying taxes, a matter of more interest to the chefe than the village brawl for which the others had been arrested. Eugenio and Kuseka were considered by the chefe not to be yet old enough for payment of tax, and Guilherme produced some [p. 133] story to explain the non-appearance of the others which satisfied the chefe."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence for54	syme	Case	Ovimbundu	"About noon the next day I found that Paulo and the catechist had returned to Epalanga and heard from them what had happened. On the way Guilherme had declared that his violent temper was to blame in having so many people arrested, apologized, and promised to go to another village. He pulled out a knife and threatened to commit suicide if this proposal was not accepted. This appeal was directed mainly to the catechist, and was reinforced by Guilherme's wife, who also threatened suicide and appealed to the catechist's feelings by pointing out that she had had two of her children baptized. This was accepted, and accordingly all turned back to the village except for Guilherme, Bartolomeu, his son Eugenio, and Wasuka's son Kuseka. Eugenio and Kuseka had been arrested for not paying taxes, a matter of more interest to the chefe than the village brawl for which the others had been arrested. Eugenio and Kuseka were considered by the chefe not to be yet old enough for payment of tax, and Guilherme produced some [p. 133] story to explain the non-appearance of the others which satisfied the chefe."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence56	zgarfield	Case	Ovimbundu	"Similarly, in 1920 soba Mabongo of Huambo, who had long been an ally of the Portuguese (refusing to join in the 1902 war), and who was well respected by the local merchants, was driven to commit suicide because he was unable to send the number of contract workers which the chefe had ordered, and he could not face the popular scorn of the villagers who ridiculed him for his collaboration.116 In 1926, six years after his suicide, the local people remembered him as a man who had sold out to the Portuguese.117"	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for56	syme	Case	Ovimbundu	"Similarly, in 1920 soba Mabongo of Huambo, who had long been an ally of the Portuguese (refusing to join in the 1902 war), and who was well respected by the local merchants, was driven to commit suicide because he was unable to send the number of contract workers which the chefe had ordered, and he could not face the popular scorn of the villagers who ridiculed him for his collaboration.116 In 1926, six years after his suicide, the local people remembered him as a man who had sold out to the Portuguese.117"	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for57	zgarfield	Case	Ovimbundu	"One prince of Mbailundu, Kalandula, committed suicide after an unsuccessful struggle against his noble subordinates was also very friendly to the Portuguese.84"	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence for57	syme	Case	Ovimbundu	"One prince of Mbailundu, Kalandula, committed suicide after an unsuccessful struggle against his noble subordinates was also very friendly to the Portuguese.84"	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence570	zgarfield	Cultural model	Rungus Dusun	The inhibition of aggression in Rungus society does have the consequence of producing an intropunitive modal personality (see Appell 1966). And this is manifested in threats of suicide when an individual finds himself frustrated in achieving his goals or believes that he or she has not been given sufficient consideration or respect. And actual suicides do occur.	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for570	syme	Cultural model	Rungus Dusun	The inhibition of aggression in Rungus society does have the consequence of producing an intropunitive modal personality (see Appell 1966). And this is manifested in threats of suicide when an individual finds himself frustrated in achieving his goals or believes that he or she has not been given sufficient consideration or respect. And actual suicides do occur.	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence575	zgarfield	Case	Maya	"Landa states in his defense that his friars killed or maimed no one intentionally, and that many natives ""hung themselves in the bush and uninhabited sites and hidden places in order not to give [up] the idols nor abandon their evil ways as two or three did [hang themselves] in the province of Sotuta and as many more in that of Mani in the Pueblo of Tekax and Pustuniche."""	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for575	syme	Case	Maya	"Landa states in his defense that his friars killed or maimed no one intentionally, and that many natives ""hung themselves in the bush and uninhabited sites and hidden places in order not to give [up] the idols nor abandon their evil ways as two or three did [hang themselves] in the province of Sotuta and as many more in that of Mani in the Pueblo of Tekax and Pustuniche."""	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence576	zgarfield	Cultural model	Maya	"Souls of the very bad go directly to metnal, which is the home of the demons and lies beneath the earth. All sorcerers go there, for they have made a pact with the devil and have sold him their souls for their special black art. Those that know love philters, or can change themselves into animals, those that can send evil magic into others, and all those that have uncanny ability at anything--prestidigitation, bull-fighting, or even needlework--have made the dreadful pact. Suicides go straight to metnal, and therefore some advise that they be buried face downward, looking toward metnal."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence576	syme	Cultural model	Maya	"Souls of the very bad go directly to metnal, which is the home of the demons and lies beneath the earth. All sorcerers go there, for they have made a pact with the devil and have sold him their souls for their special black art. Those that know love philters, or can change themselves into animals, those that can send evil magic into others, and all those that have uncanny ability at anything--prestidigitation, bull-fighting, or even needlework--have made the dreadful pact. Suicides go straight to metnal, and therefore some advise that they be buried face downward, looking toward metnal."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence577	zgarfield	Cultural model	Maya	"He who injures a tortoise is thereafter accursed; he is fatally drawn to water and one day he will hurl himself into the cenote. At its bottom a tortoise of enormous size blocks passage through a deep hole, spiral like a snail-shell. Through this the suicide must pass until he reaches a place where an old man and an old woman rest under a bower of chayote. When these two see the new arrival, they hasten to capture him, substituting for him a banana sprout, which, assuming the likeness of the accursed one, on the third day rises to the surface of the water. Meanwhile the damned man suffers cruel torments. When he grows fat devils devour him, leaving only a skeleton that time and again puts forth new flesh that is in turn devoured."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for577	syme	Cultural model	Maya	"He who injures a tortoise is thereafter accursed; he is fatally drawn to water and one day he will hurl himself into the cenote. At its bottom a tortoise of enormous size blocks passage through a deep hole, spiral like a snail-shell. Through this the suicide must pass until he reaches a place where an old man and an old woman rest under a bower of chayote. When these two see the new arrival, they hasten to capture him, substituting for him a banana sprout, which, assuming the likeness of the accursed one, on the third day rises to the surface of the water. Meanwhile the damned man suffers cruel torments. When he grows fat devils devour him, leaving only a skeleton that time and again puts forth new flesh that is in turn devoured."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence578	zgarfield	Cultural model	Maya	"Sins believed to merit such awful punishment are those that offend directly against God, such as murder, suicide, and witchcraft. Murder and suicide are such sins because ""as life is the gift of God, only he may dispose of it."""	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence578	syme	Cultural model	Maya	"Sins believed to merit such awful punishment are those that offend directly against God, such as murder, suicide, and witchcraft. Murder and suicide are such sins because ""as life is the gift of God, only he may dispose of it."""	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence67	zgarfield	Case	Bengali	"Karim left home while he was in the tenth grade. That was in 1930, when a good number of Hindus still lived in the village. His father, Korban Ali, searched for him in all possible places, but without any success. After two years, Karim suddenly arrived at the village with his bride, a Hindu woman of twenty-six (Karim was only eighteen at the time). The Hindus of the village became furious, but the Muslims [p. 134] thought that Karim had done a great thing by converting a Hindu girl to Islam. Villagers believed that converting a non-Muslim to Islam is clearing the way for heaven. The following year there was an election. Despite the violent protests of the Hindus, Karim got solid support in this Muslim village and got himself elected for the first time. When Karim married again in 1935 (on the plea that his Hindu wife could not manage a Muslim household) his first wife committed suicide."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for67	syme	Case	Bengali	"Karim left home while he was in the tenth grade. That was in 1930, when a good number of Hindus still lived in the village. His father, Korban Ali, searched for him in all possible places, but without any success. After two years, Karim suddenly arrived at the village with his bride, a Hindu woman of twenty-six (Karim was only eighteen at the time). The Hindus of the village became furious, but the Muslims [p. 134] thought that Karim had done a great thing by converting a Hindu girl to Islam. Villagers believed that converting a non-Muslim to Islam is clearing the way for heaven. The following year there was an election. Despite the violent protests of the Hindus, Karim got solid support in this Muslim village and got himself elected for the first time. When Karim married again in 1935 (on the plea that his Hindu wife could not manage a Muslim household) his first wife committed suicide."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for68	zgarfield	Case	Bengali	"A tragic incident occurred in Palashpur following the attempted rape of a young married Baen woman by a twenty-four-year-old Brahman bachelor. The young man was already known throughout the untouchable community for his promiscuity. His wedding was arranged and wedding date set, but one day the young woman saw him following her while she was gathering firewood from the bush. She was frightened and ran home to tell her husband, who asked her to continue collecting fuel. The Baen husband called some of his friends and quietly entered the bush just in time to find the Brahman molesting his wife. The seven Baen men jumped upon the Brahman and beat him, but high-caste men who heard the noise intervened on behalf of the Brahman. The Baen men went back to the village grudgingly and decided to file a court case. The Baen wanted several Lohar to accompany them to the police station, but the Lohar men decided against it because they and their children worked as mahinders in high-caste homes. They were fearful of creating possible tension with their manibs' families. The police from Bolpur came with a warrant to arrest the young Brahman, but he had already run away. Apparently the young man's family was ashamed of his behavior and refused to help him. This annoyed the high-caste youths, one of whom told a group of Baen men, ""You should be ashamed of yourselves. We could have settled the matter like bhadrolok, but you went to court to act against your own people and to ruin the [p. 58] guy's life."" But later a Baen man wondered aloud, ""Who's a bhadrolok and who's not? It's not written on your skin. Your behavior must show it. We have suffered for many years. Those high-caste men have insulted our women on many occasions. Now we must have justice!"" Another shouted, ""I shall have no sleep until that guy goes to jail for at least ten years."" The search went on, but the police could not trace the young man. After three days news came that he had jumped in front of a train at Guskara Station near Bolpur and after several hours had died. Upon hearing this, high-caste men in Palashpur went into a great rage against the Baen. Some shouted, ""We will burn the Muchipara"" (the portion of the village where the Baen live). The Baen were frightened by this and met with CPM members at Shyambati, about a mile from Palashpur on the Palashpur-Santiniketan road. There they announced their challenge that they would fight back. Now the village was divided into two groups. When the man's body was returned, a silence fell over the community. People were ready for a storm, but one elderly Baen woman who could not bear the sight of the dead body cried loudly and ran to the home of the dead man: ""Oh, he is our son, a son of the village! I saw him as a crawling baby, so big and so healthy. Oh god, why don't you take old people like us? Here we are and he is gone. How can his parents bear this?"" She began to beat her chest, and soon other untouchable women, in tears, followed her. At first the family of the dead man did not react, then abruptly the young man's mother started to cry and pound her chest. She cried loudly. After a few minutes the people set aside their grudge against each other and lamented the tragedy. The Baen men came to the Brahman's courtyard. One said, ""Oh god, we did not want this. We just wanted to threaten him. After all, he was not that bad."" One old Brahman man said, ""What he did, all of us did in our youth. He was just very unlucky to get caught this way."" During the cremation, a huge crowd gathered to lament his death, and the funeral feast was attended by both high caste and untouchables alike. The entire event was like a social drama, turning the village scoundrel into a hero. The incident also demonstrated the rising power and determination of the Baen to react against social injustices within the community. [p. 59] The event also revealed the inherent community cohesiveness--to be able to stand together in the face of a calamity."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence for68	syme	Case	Bengali	"A tragic incident occurred in Palashpur following the attempted rape of a young married Baen woman by a twenty-four-year-old Brahman bachelor. The young man was already known throughout the untouchable community for his promiscuity. His wedding was arranged and wedding date set, but one day the young woman saw him following her while she was gathering firewood from the bush. She was frightened and ran home to tell her husband, who asked her to continue collecting fuel. The Baen husband called some of his friends and quietly entered the bush just in time to find the Brahman molesting his wife. The seven Baen men jumped upon the Brahman and beat him, but high-caste men who heard the noise intervened on behalf of the Brahman. The Baen men went back to the village grudgingly and decided to file a court case. The Baen wanted several Lohar to accompany them to the police station, but the Lohar men decided against it because they and their children worked as mahinders in high-caste homes. They were fearful of creating possible tension with their manibs' families. The police from Bolpur came with a warrant to arrest the young Brahman, but he had already run away. Apparently the young man's family was ashamed of his behavior and refused to help him. This annoyed the high-caste youths, one of whom told a group of Baen men, ""You should be ashamed of yourselves. We could have settled the matter like bhadrolok, but you went to court to act against your own people and to ruin the [p. 58] guy's life."" But later a Baen man wondered aloud, ""Who's a bhadrolok and who's not? It's not written on your skin. Your behavior must show it. We have suffered for many years. Those high-caste men have insulted our women on many occasions. Now we must have justice!"" Another shouted, ""I shall have no sleep until that guy goes to jail for at least ten years."" The search went on, but the police could not trace the young man. After three days news came that he had jumped in front of a train at Guskara Station near Bolpur and after several hours had died. Upon hearing this, high-caste men in Palashpur went into a great rage against the Baen. Some shouted, ""We will burn the Muchipara"" (the portion of the village where the Baen live). The Baen were frightened by this and met with CPM members at Shyambati, about a mile from Palashpur on the Palashpur-Santiniketan road. There they announced their challenge that they would fight back. Now the village was divided into two groups. When the man's body was returned, a silence fell over the community. People were ready for a storm, but one elderly Baen woman who could not bear the sight of the dead body cried loudly and ran to the home of the dead man: ""Oh, he is our son, a son of the village! I saw him as a crawling baby, so big and so healthy. Oh god, why don't you take old people like us? Here we are and he is gone. How can his parents bear this?"" She began to beat her chest, and soon other untouchable women, in tears, followed her. At first the family of the dead man did not react, then abruptly the young man's mother started to cry and pound her chest. She cried loudly. After a few minutes the people set aside their grudge against each other and lamented the tragedy. The Baen men came to the Brahman's courtyard. One said, ""Oh god, we did not want this. We just wanted to threaten him. After all, he was not that bad."" One old Brahman man said, ""What he did, all of us did in our youth. He was just very unlucky to get caught this way."" During the cremation, a huge crowd gathered to lament his death, and the funeral feast was attended by both high caste and untouchables alike. The entire event was like a social drama, turning the village scoundrel into a hero. The incident also demonstrated the rising power and determination of the Baen to react against social injustices within the community. [p. 59] The event also revealed the inherent community cohesiveness--to be able to stand together in the face of a calamity."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence for1913	zgarfield	Case	Malekula	"Not infrequently a mother will destroy herself should her newborn child die, and one case is recorded of a woman killing herself by means of arrow wounds after her husband's death."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence1913	syme	Case	Malekula	"Not infrequently a mother will destroy herself should her newborn child die, and one case is recorded of a woman killing herself by means of arrow wounds after her husband's death."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence662	zgarfield	Case	Malekula	"The Death of Ambat When he and his brothers were living on Tomman Island Ambat married a woman called Lindanda. She was white like the Ambat brothers. Now Awirara wanted her, so he said to the other three: ""Look here, let us go to the mainland. There let us take nimoos1 leaves and dive to the bottom where the giant clam is, and every time we come up we will munch the leaves. Then Ambat will come along, and we will tell him that we are eating the inside of that clam. Then he will dive down where it is, and it will snap his head off."" So they asked Ambat to go with them, and he agreed to do so. But before setting out he said to Lindanda: ""Lindanda, here is a rope. If you see nothing, well and good; but if you see a dove (nivimar) come up from the sea, fly past you, and settle on a tree, then tie this rope to a tree and hang yourself by it."" So Lindanda took the rope, and he went across to the mainland. Passing by the shore he saw his brothers diving and munching something as they came up, so he asked them what it was. They replied: ""It is the giant clam we are eating. If you will dive down you will get some."" Ambat guessed that it was a trick to kill him, but nevertheless he stood on the rock and dived down and the clam bit off his head. Then his spirit rose up from the sea as a dove (nivimar), and flew to Tomman Island to Lindanda. And when she saw it alight upon a tree, she knew that it was her husband's spirit, so she took the rope he had given her and hanged herself from the tree.2 And when the four brothers saw that Ambat's head was bitten off, they returned to Tomman Island, thinking to have Lindanda to wife. But when they came up they saw her hanging from the tree, and they said to each other: ""Ambat knew that we were deceiving him, intending to kill him and take Lindanda, and now even at the last he has outwitted us, for they have both died together."" The suicide of Lindanda is interesting, for in Malekula it is not the rule for wives to kill themselves on the death of their husbands.--C. H. W"	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence662	syme	Case	Malekula	"The Death of Ambat When he and his brothers were living on Tomman Island Ambat married a woman called Lindanda. She was white like the Ambat brothers. Now Awirara wanted her, so he said to the other three: ""Look here, let us go to the mainland. There let us take nimoos1 leaves and dive to the bottom where the giant clam is, and every time we come up we will munch the leaves. Then Ambat will come along, and we will tell him that we are eating the inside of that clam. Then he will dive down where it is, and it will snap his head off."" So they asked Ambat to go with them, and he agreed to do so. But before setting out he said to Lindanda: ""Lindanda, here is a rope. If you see nothing, well and good; but if you see a dove (nivimar) come up from the sea, fly past you, and settle on a tree, then tie this rope to a tree and hang yourself by it."" So Lindanda took the rope, and he went across to the mainland. Passing by the shore he saw his brothers diving and munching something as they came up, so he asked them what it was. They replied: ""It is the giant clam we are eating. If you will dive down you will get some."" Ambat guessed that it was a trick to kill him, but nevertheless he stood on the rock and dived down and the clam bit off his head. Then his spirit rose up from the sea as a dove (nivimar), and flew to Tomman Island to Lindanda. And when she saw it alight upon a tree, she knew that it was her husband's spirit, so she took the rope he had given her and hanged herself from the tree.2 And when the four brothers saw that Ambat's head was bitten off, they returned to Tomman Island, thinking to have Lindanda to wife. But when they came up they saw her hanging from the tree, and they said to each other: ""Ambat knew that we were deceiving him, intending to kill him and take Lindanda, and now even at the last he has outwitted us, for they have both died together."" The suicide of Lindanda is interesting, for in Malekula it is not the rule for wives to kill themselves on the death of their husbands.--C. H. W"	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence663	zgarfield	Cultural model	Malekula	"People driven out of their ples by gossip or humiliation have attempted or actually committed suicide or, if male, they have run amok or crazy in the bush, outside the social order. These alternatives suggest to me that the Mewun self-concept is so linked with ples that the thought of being without it is virtually insupportable and life not worth living outside of the orientation it provides. Furthermore, without a ples, an individual is without cultivated food resources or fellow workers to help him grow food; since land is the link that holds people together under a concept of ples, its loss is equivalent to loss of self or identity."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for663	syme	Cultural model	Malekula	"People driven out of their ples by gossip or humiliation have attempted or actually committed suicide or, if male, they have run amok or crazy in the bush, outside the social order. These alternatives suggest to me that the Mewun self-concept is so linked with ples that the thought of being without it is virtually insupportable and life not worth living outside of the orientation it provides. Furthermore, without a ples, an individual is without cultivated food resources or fellow workers to help him grow food; since land is the link that holds people together under a concept of ples, its loss is equivalent to loss of self or identity."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for664	zgarfield	Cultural model	Malekula	"Suicide, which is the only female response to relational problems (men tend to choose either ""running amok"" or suicide), is an old and traditional response to such trouble but is still used by contemporary Mewun. Mewun recall with a giggle the recent famous South West Bay Jump.2 [p. 106]"	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence664	syme	Cultural model	Malekula	"Suicide, which is the only female response to relational problems (men tend to choose either ""running amok"" or suicide), is an old and traditional response to such trouble but is still used by contemporary Mewun. Mewun recall with a giggle the recent famous South West Bay Jump.2 [p. 106]"	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence665	zgarfield	Cultural model	Malekula	"The influence of ruptured relationships on the suicide attempt seems clear in this episode. Even to an outsider, the relationship between ""the price of one's existence"" (Leenhardt) and suicide are evident. But Mewun suicide threats or actual attempts seemed unfamiliar to me. I would argue that the ""suicidal"" personality is not to be seen in Mewun; instead suicide threats originate abruptly, linked with disrupted relationships and shame rather than with internalized guilt and depression."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence665	syme	Cultural model	Malekula	"The influence of ruptured relationships on the suicide attempt seems clear in this episode. Even to an outsider, the relationship between ""the price of one's existence"" (Leenhardt) and suicide are evident. But Mewun suicide threats or actual attempts seemed unfamiliar to me. I would argue that the ""suicidal"" personality is not to be seen in Mewun; instead suicide threats originate abruptly, linked with disrupted relationships and shame rather than with internalized guilt and depression."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence1692	zgarfield	Case	Igbo	"She was finally stabbed to death in front of their house. After this had happened, Ogbonnaya returned to the same room in which Ndukauba had been fatally stabbed. With a loud cry of frustration and an inaudible incantation, Ogbonnaya plunged the now bloody knife into his own heart. He expired shortly after. ...With his parents no longer around to support his bad habits, life had become even less meaningful to him."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for1692	syme	Case	Igbo	"She was finally stabbed to death in front of their house. After this had happened, Ogbonnaya returned to the same room in which Ndukauba had been fatally stabbed. With a loud cry of frustration and an inaudible incantation, Ogbonnaya plunged the now bloody knife into his own heart. He expired shortly after. ...With his parents no longer around to support his bad habits, life had become even less meaningful to him."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence1693	zgarfield	Cultural model	Igbo	"Suicide is looked upon by the villagers as a punishment both for the victim and his immediate family for their wrong doings. A person who committed suicide is regarded as the property of the devil. He is usually buried in a thick forest away from the normal burial ground and from the estates of his immediate family. His name is hardly mentioned in a family discussion. Besides being an embarrassment to his family, he is regarded as a bad influence for the children. The old members of the extended family, in an effort to protect their younger generations, tend to omit the name of a suicide victim or the cause of his death whenever the genealogy of the family is being recited as a part of the family's oral history."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence1693	syme	Cultural model	Igbo	"Suicide is looked upon by the villagers as a punishment both for the victim and his immediate family for their wrong doings. A person who committed suicide is regarded as the property of the devil. He is usually buried in a thick forest away from the normal burial ground and from the estates of his immediate family. His name is hardly mentioned in a family discussion. Besides being an embarrassment to his family, he is regarded as a bad influence for the children. The old members of the extended family, in an effort to protect their younger generations, tend to omit the name of a suicide victim or the cause of his death whenever the genealogy of the family is being recited as a part of the family's oral history."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence29	zgarfield	Case	Bagisu	"For example, following the death by drowning of a local man I visited his two widows. At the time, only two days after the death, it was rumoured that he might have been killed and I asked them about this. They agreed that it was possible but thought that it was unlikely. More probably, in their view, he had killed himself. He was an old man who had been ill for some considerable time and recently been in great pain. He had intimated to both of them his desire to put an end to his suffering. Preparations for a normal burial were going ahead. This death was recorded in the records as misadventure, reflecting, I suspect, the cultural as well as the physical indeterminateness of the situation. The question of definitions and of the cultural biases operating to produce a given set of statistics will be raised again in later discussion with respect to the idea of murder. (3) It is relevant to note that suicide by hanging carries the implication of self-sacrifice, for traditionally animals were sacrificed without bloodshed, by strangulation or stunning."	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence29	syme	Case	Bagisu	"For example, following the death by drowning of a local man I visited his two widows. At the time, only two days after the death, it was rumoured that he might have been killed and I asked them about this. They agreed that it was possible but thought that it was unlikely. More probably, in their view, he had killed himself. He was an old man who had been ill for some considerable time and recently been in great pain. He had intimated to both of them his desire to put an end to his suffering. Preparations for a normal burial were going ahead. This death was recorded in the records as misadventure, reflecting, I suspect, the cultural as well as the physical indeterminateness of the situation. The question of definitions and of the cultural biases operating to produce a given set of statistics will be raised again in later discussion with respect to the idea of murder. (3) It is relevant to note that suicide by hanging carries the implication of self-sacrifice, for traditionally animals were sacrificed without bloodshed, by strangulation or stunning."	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence31	zgarfield	Case	Bena	"Mkwawa fled from his fort into the bush with only a few followers, and in the end his retinue was reduced to four people, two men and two women. And he said, ""I see that it is now time for me to die. Do you agree to accompany me?"" The women and one man agreed, but the other man only pretended to do so. Then Mkwawa killed his two wives and the first man, but the second ran away. Mkwawa chased him, but could not catch him, so he returned to the place where he had killed the others, and there shot himself. His people had brought wood for a fire, so that when he killed himself he might fall among the burning logs and thus prevent the Germans from finding his body. But his head fell slightly to one side, and when the Germans heard the shot and the words of the boy who had run away, they came and found him--dead. And they cut off his head. (1) (1) This was on July 19, 1898, nearly four years after the destru"	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence for31	syme	Case	Bena	"Mkwawa fled from his fort into the bush with only a few followers, and in the end his retinue was reduced to four people, two men and two women. And he said, ""I see that it is now time for me to die. Do you agree to accompany me?"" The women and one man agreed, but the other man only pretended to do so. Then Mkwawa killed his two wives and the first man, but the second ran away. Mkwawa chased him, but could not catch him, so he returned to the place where he had killed the others, and there shot himself. His people had brought wood for a fire, so that when he killed himself he might fall among the burning logs and thus prevent the Germans from finding his body. But his head fell slightly to one side, and when the Germans heard the shot and the words of the boy who had run away, they came and found him--dead. And they cut off his head. (1) (1) This was on July 19, 1898, nearly four years after the destru"	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence for32	zgarfield	Case	Bena	"The course of the civil war has been outlined by Towegale. Sagamaganga was a man of violence if ever there was one, a born rebel, while the divisions in the tribe consequent on Kiwanga's matrimonial dilemma played into his hands. He was, it is alleged, a drug addict, and this largely accounted for his ungovernable rages and violent actions. He used a drug which is normally employed for stupefying fish* in the rivers, a little of which powerfully affects human beings. On one occasion, while under its influence, he tried to murder his wife, Senjenge, and actually succeeded in spearing her in the arm, and he apparently hanged ten young wives before committing suicide. Truly Sagamaganga and Semudodera and Senjenge were a remarkable trio! THE arrival of the Germans put a stop to the civil war, but the mere fact of the cessation of hostilities did not indicate the healing of the wounds in the tribe. Sagamaganga was far from willing to make peace, much less to admit Kiwanga's overlordship. When v. Prince called on him to bring his warriors to help in the campaign against Mkwawa in Uhehe he appeared as an independent chief, not as a subject of Kiwanga's.* The tribal historians tell how he went as bidden to the German station at Perondo and then with v. Prince into Uhehe, but he is alleged to have been found out in some double-dealing regarding cattle given into his care. In a rage, and to prevent public disgrace, he returned to Ifinga and killed himself with fish poison. Frau v. Prince, writing at Iringa on July 28, 1897, makes the following reference to his death, suggesting a different motive:"	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence32	syme	Case	Bena	"The course of the civil war has been outlined by Towegale. Sagamaganga was a man of violence if ever there was one, a born rebel, while the divisions in the tribe consequent on Kiwanga's matrimonial dilemma played into his hands. He was, it is alleged, a drug addict, and this largely accounted for his ungovernable rages and violent actions. He used a drug which is normally employed for stupefying fish* in the rivers, a little of which powerfully affects human beings. On one occasion, while under its influence, he tried to murder his wife, Senjenge, and actually succeeded in spearing her in the arm, and he apparently hanged ten young wives before committing suicide. Truly Sagamaganga and Semudodera and Senjenge were a remarkable trio! THE arrival of the Germans put a stop to the civil war, but the mere fact of the cessation of hostilities did not indicate the healing of the wounds in the tribe. Sagamaganga was far from willing to make peace, much less to admit Kiwanga's overlordship. When v. Prince called on him to bring his warriors to help in the campaign against Mkwawa in Uhehe he appeared as an independent chief, not as a subject of Kiwanga's.* The tribal historians tell how he went as bidden to the German station at Perondo and then with v. Prince into Uhehe, but he is alleged to have been found out in some double-dealing regarding cattle given into his care. In a rage, and to prevent public disgrace, he returned to Ifinga and killed himself with fish poison. Frau v. Prince, writing at Iringa on July 28, 1897, makes the following reference to his death, suggesting a different motive:"	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence198	zgarfield	Case	Maya	"Nachi Cocom and the people of his province, Sotuta, had been overrun by the Spaniards, and the invaders baptized the powerful ruler, Juan. As time passed, Nachi Cocom fell dreadfully ill, and his brother Lorenzo offered human sacrifices to save the ruler's life. After two months, Nachi Cocom still lay dying. Two boys were brought to the Christian church, and their hearts were offered to save the life of the batab (governor). Nachi Cocom died two days later and was buried in the church at Sotuta. His brother, Lorenzo, became batab and rebelled against the new religion and continued to practice the traditional rites of the Maya. In 1562, he had three boys taken to Chichen Itza, where they were thrown into the Cenote Sagrado. Later, in July of 1562, out of desperation and anticipation of Friar Diego de Landa's Inquisition, Lorenzo Cocom hanged himself."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for198	syme	Case	Maya	"Nachi Cocom and the people of his province, Sotuta, had been overrun by the Spaniards, and the invaders baptized the powerful ruler, Juan. As time passed, Nachi Cocom fell dreadfully ill, and his brother Lorenzo offered human sacrifices to save the ruler's life. After two months, Nachi Cocom still lay dying. Two boys were brought to the Christian church, and their hearts were offered to save the life of the batab (governor). Nachi Cocom died two days later and was buried in the church at Sotuta. His brother, Lorenzo, became batab and rebelled against the new religion and continued to practice the traditional rites of the Maya. In 1562, he had three boys taken to Chichen Itza, where they were thrown into the Cenote Sagrado. Later, in July of 1562, out of desperation and anticipation of Friar Diego de Landa's Inquisition, Lorenzo Cocom hanged himself."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence1742	zgarfield	Cultural model	Bagisu	"A suicide is buried in the open, never in a house. Should the death have taken place in a house, it is burned down, for no one will live in it."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence1742	syme	Cultural model	Bagisu	"A suicide is buried in the open, never in a house. Should the death have taken place in a house, it is burned down, for no one will live in it."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence210	zgarfield	Case	Assiniboine	"Except in some few cases of the distinct kind, the fever always rose to a pitch of frenzy, in which state many committed suicide or died in other horrid forms. An Indian near the fort, named the Little Dog, after losing his favorite child, proposed to his wife to kill the whole family before they were so much disfigured as to present a disgusting appearance in the future world. [p. 72] She agreed with the stipulation that he should kill her before the children as she did not wish to witness their death. The man then went to work deliberately, shot all his horses and dogs, then his wife, then cut the throats of his two children and lastly blew his own brains out."	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence210	syme	Case	Assiniboine	"Except in some few cases of the distinct kind, the fever always rose to a pitch of frenzy, in which state many committed suicide or died in other horrid forms. An Indian near the fort, named the Little Dog, after losing his favorite child, proposed to his wife to kill the whole family before they were so much disfigured as to present a disgusting appearance in the future world. [p. 72] She agreed with the stipulation that he should kill her before the children as she did not wish to witness their death. The man then went to work deliberately, shot all his horses and dogs, then his wife, then cut the throats of his two children and lastly blew his own brains out."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence212	zgarfield	Case	Assiniboine	"Every year in this way the women hang themselves, sometimes for the loss of their husbands, but more frequently on account of the death of their children, or for revenge. Suicides are also common among the men. They generally use the gun to produce death."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence212	syme	Case	Assiniboine	"Every year in this way the women hang themselves, sometimes for the loss of their husbands, but more frequently on account of the death of their children, or for revenge. Suicides are also common among the men. They generally use the gun to produce death."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence213	zgarfield	Case	Assiniboine	"Another woman had her son (a young man) killed by the Blackfeet, and immediately afterwards another of her children died from disease. Several persons were appointed to watch the mother, suspecting her intentions; but they all fell asleep and she hung herself at the door of the lodge, between two dog travailles set on end. She was a tall woman and could only produce strangulation by swinging herself off the ground from her feet. She did it, however, and the body was brought to the fort for interment."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence213	syme	Case	Assiniboine	"Another woman had her son (a young man) killed by the Blackfeet, and immediately afterwards another of her children died from disease. Several persons were appointed to watch the mother, suspecting her intentions; but they all fell asleep and she hung herself at the door of the lodge, between two dog travailles set on end. She was a tall woman and could only produce strangulation by swinging herself off the ground from her feet. She did it, however, and the body was brought to the fort for interment."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence214	zgarfield	Case	Assiniboine	"The third was a still more unfortunate case. The child of this woman had been sick some time and was expected to die. On the night in question it fell into a swoon and was to all appearance dead. No person being present the mother in the derangement of the moment went out and hung herself. The child recovered, but the mother was dead."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence214	syme	Case	Assiniboine	"The third was a still more unfortunate case. The child of this woman had been sick some time and was expected to die. On the night in question it fell into a swoon and was to all appearance dead. No person being present the mother in the derangement of the moment went out and hung herself. The child recovered, but the mother was dead."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence891	zgarfield	Case	Quinault	The other involved a case of love between a lad and a girl who were relatives and therefore forbidden to marry. The young man shot himself. Burial for suicides was the same as in more ordinary deaths.	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for891	syme	Case	Quinault	The other involved a case of love between a lad and a girl who were relatives and therefore forbidden to marry. The young man shot himself. Burial for suicides was the same as in more ordinary deaths.	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for519	zgarfield	Cultural model	Bagisu	Suicide is considered by Gisu to be evil and the result of a deliberate choice between the alternatives of life and death; it is not therefore regarded as the act of an insane person.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence519	syme	Cultural model	Bagisu	Suicide is considered by Gisu to be evil and the result of a deliberate choice between the alternatives of life and death; it is not therefore regarded as the act of an insane person.	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence555	zgarfield	Cultural model	Nuer	"A girl who is married to a man she detests and commits suicide may take vengeance from the grave on her kin who forced her to marry him. However, those Nuer whom I questioned were not in agreement in this case, some holding that the girl would not have cuong, right, and could not therefore harm her kin."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for555	syme	Cultural model	Nuer	"A girl who is married to a man she detests and commits suicide may take vengeance from the grave on her kin who forced her to marry him. However, those Nuer whom I questioned were not in agreement in this case, some holding that the girl would not have cuong, right, and could not therefore harm her kin."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence for556	zgarfield	Cultural model	Ovimbundu	"Women who commit suicide generally do so by hanging or drowning. Men stab themselves in the heart or use a flintlock gun, the trigger of which they pull with their toes. It is feared that the spirit of a suicide will return to induce another suicide in the family, therefore there is anxiety to rid the community of these spirits."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence556	syme	Cultural model	Ovimbundu	"Women who commit suicide generally do so by hanging or drowning. Men stab themselves in the heart or use a flintlock gun, the trigger of which they pull with their toes. It is feared that the spirit of a suicide will return to induce another suicide in the family, therefore there is anxiety to rid the community of these spirits."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence1838	zgarfield	Cultural model	Maya	The Yucatan doctors assert that most suicides occur in the final stages of pellagra. The patient become mentally deranged and jumps into a cenote or hangs himself.	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence1838	syme	Cultural model	Maya	The Yucatan doctors assert that most suicides occur in the final stages of pellagra. The patient become mentally deranged and jumps into a cenote or hangs himself.	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence1839	zgarfield	Cultural model	Maya	"They also said, and held as quite certain, that those who had hung themselves went to this paradise; and there were many who in times of lesser troubles, labors or sickness, hung themselves to escape and go to that paradise, to which they were thought to be carried by the goddess of the scaffold whom they called Xtab."	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence1839	syme	Cultural model	Maya	"They also said, and held as quite certain, that those who had hung themselves went to this paradise; and there were many who in times of lesser troubles, labors or sickness, hung themselves to escape and go to that paradise, to which they were thought to be carried by the goddess of the scaffold whom they called Xtab."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence1840	zgarfield	Case	Maya	"Some years ago when Roman Pec was head chief, one of the subchiefs came to Corozal, the nearest town in British Honduras, to purchase powder, shot, and other supplies. he remained some time, as he had many firnds in the place, and obtained, among other things, a bottle of laudanum to relieve a toothache. on returning to his village he was met by three soldiers, who informed him that he was to go with them at one to the head chief, as the latter was angry with him on account of his long absence from the country. Aware that this was equivalent to a sentence of death, he asked permission to retire to his house for a few minutes, to get ready for the journey, and taking advantage of the opportunity, he swallowed the whole contents of the bottle of laudanum. This began to take effect very shortly, and long before reaching the capital he was dead."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for1840	syme	Case	Maya	"Some years ago when Roman Pec was head chief, one of the subchiefs came to Corozal, the nearest town in British Honduras, to purchase powder, shot, and other supplies. he remained some time, as he had many firnds in the place, and obtained, among other things, a bottle of laudanum to relieve a toothache. on returning to his village he was met by three soldiers, who informed him that he was to go with them at one to the head chief, as the latter was angry with him on account of his long absence from the country. Aware that this was equivalent to a sentence of death, he asked permission to retire to his house for a few minutes, to get ready for the journey, and taking advantage of the opportunity, he swallowed the whole contents of the bottle of laudanum. This began to take effect very shortly, and long before reaching the capital he was dead."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for564	zgarfield	Cultural model	Okinawans	"Conversely, feeling often runs high against those who have brought public disgrace upon the group; cases of suicide are sometimes denied burial in the common tomb, and their bodies may be turned over to the Buddhist priest for cremation."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence564	syme	Cultural model	Okinawans	"Conversely, feeling often runs high against those who have brought public disgrace upon the group; cases of suicide are sometimes denied burial in the common tomb, and their bodies may be turned over to the Buddhist priest for cremation."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence1856	zgarfield	Cultural model	Pomo	"Enquiries concerning suicide as we know it brought forth responses showing that the Pomo not only could not conceive of such a thing, but that they explained it as occurring in other societies because the supernaturals or the doctors in the cultures discussed, had caused the individual to do the act. As for themselves, they had never heard of anyone in their history who had ever committed suicide."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence1856	syme	Cultural model	Pomo	"Enquiries concerning suicide as we know it brought forth responses showing that the Pomo not only could not conceive of such a thing, but that they explained it as occurring in other societies because the supernaturals or the doctors in the cultures discussed, had caused the individual to do the act. As for themselves, they had never heard of anyone in their history who had ever committed suicide."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence325	zgarfield	Case	Pomo	"The principal Southeastern Pomo informant witnessed at Koi a case of a woman eating part of her son who had been killed by a bear. The woman's motive was a desire to die, so she ate a piece of her son's flesh. She vomited all night long after eating the flesh. When morning came she ceased, but still lay there, and the next day she died. The [p. 377] informant had neither seen nor heard of such a thing before. He once knew the name of the dead man, but could not recall it."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence325	syme	Case	Pomo	"The principal Southeastern Pomo informant witnessed at Koi a case of a woman eating part of her son who had been killed by a bear. The woman's motive was a desire to die, so she ate a piece of her son's flesh. She vomited all night long after eating the flesh. When morning came she ceased, but still lay there, and the next day she died. The [p. 377] informant had neither seen nor heard of such a thing before. He once knew the name of the dead man, but could not recall it."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence55	zgarfield	Case	Ovimbundu	"Much of the actual case consisted of accusations and counter-accusations between Sapapula and Kapapelo with other people intervening. There is a kind of attempt to establish a balance of wrongs, Kusumula claiming that Sapapula was always picking on him when there was a call for labour from the post, Kapapelo accusing Sapapula of inciting Jaime to kill him and Sapapula's sister's son Saviel of planning to seduce his wife. Sapapula had accused Kusumula and Kapapelo of trying to break the village. Lusase intervened rather against Kusumula and Kapapelo, who was his 'brother'. As previously, the demands of the post for labour are regarded as being used by their local executants in a discriminating way. On the evening of the same day, as I was calling round the village, I found Kapapelo at the door of Sapapula's kitchen. Apparently he had arrived drunk and had threatened to kill himself. Sapapula was greatly enraged at this, as were his women folk, Nahoka, his wife, Wumba, his daughter, and Nayangu, his 'sister', who vigorously abused Kapapelo. They warned Sapapula not to accept food from Kapapelo, lest the latter use it as a means of sorcery. Kapapelo complained that Nahoka had called him a slave thus expanding the hint contained in her previous enigmatic remark that Kapapelo was not a man of the country. [p. 142] Kapapelo had, no doubt, as was said, under the influence of drink, decided to carry on his conflict with Sapapula after the gathering at Justino's and had arrived at Sapapula's threatening to commit suicide. The threat of suicide was here used as Guilherme had used it to put an opponent in a difficult position, but it infuriated Sapapula, who decided that he must try and get another hearing. He therefore turned again to Justino, although the latter had previously decided against him; thus implying that even a possibly unfavourable judge is acceptable, rather than let a squabble continue indefinitely. [p. 145] To sum up, Kapapelo had originally been aligned with his kinsman Guilherme against Sapapula, who had then shown hostility to Kapapelo, and especially to his wife's brother Kusumula. The latter had counter-attacked by accusing Sapapula before Justino, and there the matter might have rested if Kapapelo had not tried to attack Sapapula again, by making the threat to commit suicide at his kitchen door. This led to the moot at which the charge of attempted adultery was made, and at which Sapapula intended to, and succeeded in, taming Kapapelo."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for55	syme	Case	Ovimbundu	"Much of the actual case consisted of accusations and counter-accusations between Sapapula and Kapapelo with other people intervening. There is a kind of attempt to establish a balance of wrongs, Kusumula claiming that Sapapula was always picking on him when there was a call for labour from the post, Kapapelo accusing Sapapula of inciting Jaime to kill him and Sapapula's sister's son Saviel of planning to seduce his wife. Sapapula had accused Kusumula and Kapapelo of trying to break the village. Lusase intervened rather against Kusumula and Kapapelo, who was his 'brother'. As previously, the demands of the post for labour are regarded as being used by their local executants in a discriminating way. On the evening of the same day, as I was calling round the village, I found Kapapelo at the door of Sapapula's kitchen. Apparently he had arrived drunk and had threatened to kill himself. Sapapula was greatly enraged at this, as were his women folk, Nahoka, his wife, Wumba, his daughter, and Nayangu, his 'sister', who vigorously abused Kapapelo. They warned Sapapula not to accept food from Kapapelo, lest the latter use it as a means of sorcery. Kapapelo complained that Nahoka had called him a slave thus expanding the hint contained in her previous enigmatic remark that Kapapelo was not a man of the country. [p. 142] Kapapelo had, no doubt, as was said, under the influence of drink, decided to carry on his conflict with Sapapula after the gathering at Justino's and had arrived at Sapapula's threatening to commit suicide. The threat of suicide was here used as Guilherme had used it to put an opponent in a difficult position, but it infuriated Sapapula, who decided that he must try and get another hearing. He therefore turned again to Justino, although the latter had previously decided against him; thus implying that even a possibly unfavourable judge is acceptable, rather than let a squabble continue indefinitely. [p. 145] To sum up, Kapapelo had originally been aligned with his kinsman Guilherme against Sapapula, who had then shown hostility to Kapapelo, and especially to his wife's brother Kusumula. The latter had counter-attacked by accusing Sapapula before Justino, and there the matter might have rested if Kapapelo had not tried to attack Sapapula again, by making the threat to commit suicide at his kitchen door. This led to the moot at which the charge of attempted adultery was made, and at which Sapapula intended to, and succeeded in, taming Kapapelo."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence568	zgarfield	Cultural model	Rungus Dusun	"The closeness of the parent-child relationship is attested by the fact that on the death of a child, parents are always carefully watched by their village-mates to forestall the possibility of suicide by hanging"	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence568	syme	Cultural model	Rungus Dusun	"The closeness of the parent-child relationship is attested by the fact that on the death of a child, parents are always carefully watched by their village-mates to forestall the possibility of suicide by hanging"	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence569	zgarfield	Cultural model	Rungus Dusun	"Under certain conditions a bride will engage in behavior that is termed amu tumutun and which I have referred to as ""the reluctant bride"" pattern of behavior.... The explanations given for this are: the spouse selected by the bride's parents is not acceptable; the bride is ""ashamed"", ""embarrassed"" at publicly performing the role of wife, which implies coitus, before her parents and other members of the longhouse; she may be afraid of engaging in coitus, particularly if she is very young; and finally if she does not show a certain amount of reticence it would indicate that she lacked character and wanted to have intercourse... In some instances a husband who is shunned will finally divorce his wife. In rare instances, a husband will threaten or attempt suicide."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for569	syme	Cultural model	Rungus Dusun	"Under certain conditions a bride will engage in behavior that is termed amu tumutun and which I have referred to as ""the reluctant bride"" pattern of behavior.... The explanations given for this are: the spouse selected by the bride's parents is not acceptable; the bride is ""ashamed"", ""embarrassed"" at publicly performing the role of wife, which implies coitus, before her parents and other members of the longhouse; she may be afraid of engaging in coitus, particularly if she is very young; and finally if she does not show a certain amount of reticence it would indicate that she lacked character and wanted to have intercourse... In some instances a husband who is shunned will finally divorce his wife. In rare instances, a husband will threaten or attempt suicide."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence573	zgarfield	Cultural model	Bagisu	"The ancestors are believed to be able to cause a suicide, indirectly, by making life unbearable for their descendant"	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence573	syme	Cultural model	Bagisu	"The ancestors are believed to be able to cause a suicide, indirectly, by making life unbearable for their descendant"	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence1910	zgarfield	Cultural model	Banyoro	"In more recent times a king only took that step when he was wounded, especially if it were in battle and if he were bleeding freely. For a long time now, indeed for several generations, the kings have ceased to lead the army and therefore have not resorted to the poison-cup, but have died natural deaths."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence1910	syme	Cultural model	Banyoro	"In more recent times a king only took that step when he was wounded, especially if it were in battle and if he were bleeding freely. For a long time now, indeed for several generations, the kings have ceased to lead the army and therefore have not resorted to the poison-cup, but have died natural deaths."	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence1911	zgarfield	Case	Bena	"""We reached Pavaga at midday on July 15, 1898, after a forced march of thirteen hours. We concealed ourselves in thick bush and disguised ourselves as Wahehe.. At 5 p.m. the Jumbe (Kisogrewe) came in with three of Mkwawa's 'boys' who had been captured. I learned from them that he intended going to Makubuta. Also that he carried a Model 71 rifle of which the muzzle had cracked a few days previously, a mishap which had greatly upset him, and his companion had a sporting rifle. I sent off the ombasha to Makibuta with five askaris and five Wahehe, and myself stayed where I was with the rest of the party.. On July 16, 1898, the wife of Mkawa's companion was caught about 4 a.m. She said Mkwawa had gone from the Ruaha to the southern part of Pavaga, whence he wanted to get back to the Uzungwa Mountains. She herself had run away and wandered about the whole night. At midday I received information that Mkwawa had stolen some maize and a sheep. I immediately set off in pursuit. Only the Wahehe could discern the trail, which led into the bush in a westerly direction, and about 5 p.m. even they lost it and were unable to pick it up again.. On the 18th the ombasha returned. On the 19th we went back along the left bank of the Ruaha towards Iringa to the spot where we had lost the trail on the 16th. From there we went through the bush to Humbwe. I reached it at midday with the ombasha, two askaris and the Hehe Mzagira Mtaki. We halted to wait for our safari to catch us up. Suddenly we saw a naked boy of about fifteen years coming towards us. He bolted the moment he noticed us, but was presently captured. After some vigorous persuasion he admitted that he was Mkwawa's fourth servant and had run away that morning. Mkwawa lay three hours away very sick and spitting blood. The previous evening he had shot his companion. We set off immediately. When we had been marching about half an hour, we heard a shot in a south-westerly direction. [p. 421] By 2 p.m., according to the boy's statements, we were very close to Mkwawa. I then decided we must leave our packs and take off our shoes. I climbed a tree to take stock of the place. Walking without shoes was extremely painful, for the ground was very stony. We saw smoke rising a little way off. We had to wriggle along on our bellies for some 200 metres. Then we could approach no nearer without being heard. About twenty paces in front of us we saw two prostrate figures, apparently sleeping. The Jumbe pointed out one of them as Mkwawa. As the bush was very dense in the immediate vicinity and one bound would have sufficed to enable Mkwawa to escape from under our very noses, as he had so often succeeded in doing before, we fired on him. Our shots were unnecessary; Mkwawa had himself put an end to his life. Rigidity had not yet set in and he had killed himself with the shot which we had heard."""	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence for1911	syme	Case	Bena	"""We reached Pavaga at midday on July 15, 1898, after a forced march of thirteen hours. We concealed ourselves in thick bush and disguised ourselves as Wahehe.. At 5 p.m. the Jumbe (Kisogrewe) came in with three of Mkwawa's 'boys' who had been captured. I learned from them that he intended going to Makubuta. Also that he carried a Model 71 rifle of which the muzzle had cracked a few days previously, a mishap which had greatly upset him, and his companion had a sporting rifle. I sent off the ombasha to Makibuta with five askaris and five Wahehe, and myself stayed where I was with the rest of the party.. On July 16, 1898, the wife of Mkawa's companion was caught about 4 a.m. She said Mkwawa had gone from the Ruaha to the southern part of Pavaga, whence he wanted to get back to the Uzungwa Mountains. She herself had run away and wandered about the whole night. At midday I received information that Mkwawa had stolen some maize and a sheep. I immediately set off in pursuit. Only the Wahehe could discern the trail, which led into the bush in a westerly direction, and about 5 p.m. even they lost it and were unable to pick it up again.. On the 18th the ombasha returned. On the 19th we went back along the left bank of the Ruaha towards Iringa to the spot where we had lost the trail on the 16th. From there we went through the bush to Humbwe. I reached it at midday with the ombasha, two askaris and the Hehe Mzagira Mtaki. We halted to wait for our safari to catch us up. Suddenly we saw a naked boy of about fifteen years coming towards us. He bolted the moment he noticed us, but was presently captured. After some vigorous persuasion he admitted that he was Mkwawa's fourth servant and had run away that morning. Mkwawa lay three hours away very sick and spitting blood. The previous evening he had shot his companion. We set off immediately. When we had been marching about half an hour, we heard a shot in a south-westerly direction. [p. 421] By 2 p.m., according to the boy's statements, we were very close to Mkwawa. I then decided we must leave our packs and take off our shoes. I climbed a tree to take stock of the place. Walking without shoes was extremely painful, for the ground was very stony. We saw smoke rising a little way off. We had to wriggle along on our bellies for some 200 metres. Then we could approach no nearer without being heard. About twenty paces in front of us we saw two prostrate figures, apparently sleeping. The Jumbe pointed out one of them as Mkwawa. As the bush was very dense in the immediate vicinity and one bound would have sufficed to enable Mkwawa to escape from under our very noses, as he had so often succeeded in doing before, we fired on him. Our shots were unnecessary; Mkwawa had himself put an end to his life. Rigidity had not yet set in and he had killed himself with the shot which we had heard."""	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for1912	zgarfield	Cultural model	Nuer	"Whether the family of the wife will support her depends on a variety of circumstances and a combination of all matters which are conventionally regarded as grounds for divorce. They may agree with her if her husband not only persistently ill-treats her but also is lax in his duties towards them or does not approach them with the respect (thek) which is due to relatives-in-law. If he has paid substantial bridewealth for her, it is, of course, in their interests that the marriage should continue, but this may be outweighed by other considerations. It is their desire too that a daughter of the house should have children, though their feeling in this respect is not so intense as that of the husband's family. Her children, although legally placed in the patrilineal lineage of their father, will be an asset to the maternal line. We have seen that in the marriage a substantial part of the bridewealth goes to the maternal kin, and the matter of the husband's potency is therefore of practical concern to them. Moreover the final consideration which will often compel them to seek a divorce, whatever the difficulties and inconveniences to themselves, is the fear that she will run away to some other part of the country, in which case they may lose not only the cattle of this marriage but the possibility of getting others from her remarriage. In extreme cases she may even commit suicide. (1)"	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for1912	syme	Cultural model	Nuer	"Whether the family of the wife will support her depends on a variety of circumstances and a combination of all matters which are conventionally regarded as grounds for divorce. They may agree with her if her husband not only persistently ill-treats her but also is lax in his duties towards them or does not approach them with the respect (thek) which is due to relatives-in-law. If he has paid substantial bridewealth for her, it is, of course, in their interests that the marriage should continue, but this may be outweighed by other considerations. It is their desire too that a daughter of the house should have children, though their feeling in this respect is not so intense as that of the husband's family. Her children, although legally placed in the patrilineal lineage of their father, will be an asset to the maternal line. We have seen that in the marriage a substantial part of the bridewealth goes to the maternal kin, and the matter of the husband's potency is therefore of practical concern to them. Moreover the final consideration which will often compel them to seek a divorce, whatever the difficulties and inconveniences to themselves, is the fear that she will run away to some other part of the country, in which case they may lose not only the cattle of this marriage but the possibility of getting others from her remarriage. In extreme cases she may even commit suicide. (1)"	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for889	zgarfield	Case	Quinault	A Makah girl married a Quinault man named [unknown]a'mkan (black salmon; also fish; also food). She became homesick and hanged herself. His name as well as that for the fish was then changed to tsi'an (food). 44	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence889	syme	Case	Quinault	A Makah girl married a Quinault man named [unknown]a'mkan (black salmon; also fish; also food). She became homesick and hanged herself. His name as well as that for the fish was then changed to tsi'an (food). 44	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence1915	zgarfield	Cultural model	Igbo	"If the murderer hanged himself forthwith (which he frequently did from remorse at having killed one of [p. 209] children, or to save himself from being beaten to death with sticks, or to save his family from attack and the loss of their property, or merely because he was expected to do so), his brother was (at Owele) required to offer sacrifice to Ala before burying the body of the murderer. He took eight yams and one chicken to the priest of Ala who, standing before the cultus-symbol, spoke as follows: 'Ala, this chicken and these yams have been given to you by the brother of the man who killed your child and then hanged himself. He beseeches you to accept these gifts and to refrain from pursuing the brothers and children of the murderer. He who killed a fellow-man has also killed himself. Let his crime, therefore, follow him to the next world.' It will be observed from this rite that the family of the murderer was considered as sharing in the responsibility of the crime, unless it took steps to dissociate itself from the murder. It had to provide a cow, goat, fowl, two yards of cloth, and a keg of powder for the funeral-rites of the murdered man. If the murderer did not immediately hang himself, but took refuge in flight, his family had also to fly, (1) for the kin of the murdered man (including maternal relatives) immediately made a raid on the compounds and property of the kin of the murderer. In this raid any members of the local group might join. The compounds of the murderer's family were burnt to the ground, their yams were uprooted, and their palms cut down.2 All property found might be appropriated, but in some communities it was taboo for the patrilineal relatives of the murdered man to keep any of the raided property, on the ground that this would be 'eating blood-money'. But relatives in the female line might do so, as their Ala was not concerned with the death of men in other local groups."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence for1915	syme	Cultural model	Igbo	"If the murderer hanged himself forthwith (which he frequently did from remorse at having killed one of [p. 209] children, or to save himself from being beaten to death with sticks, or to save his family from attack and the loss of their property, or merely because he was expected to do so), his brother was (at Owele) required to offer sacrifice to Ala before burying the body of the murderer. He took eight yams and one chicken to the priest of Ala who, standing before the cultus-symbol, spoke as follows: 'Ala, this chicken and these yams have been given to you by the brother of the man who killed your child and then hanged himself. He beseeches you to accept these gifts and to refrain from pursuing the brothers and children of the murderer. He who killed a fellow-man has also killed himself. Let his crime, therefore, follow him to the next world.' It will be observed from this rite that the family of the murderer was considered as sharing in the responsibility of the crime, unless it took steps to dissociate itself from the murder. It had to provide a cow, goat, fowl, two yards of cloth, and a keg of powder for the funeral-rites of the murdered man. If the murderer did not immediately hang himself, but took refuge in flight, his family had also to fly, (1) for the kin of the murdered man (including maternal relatives) immediately made a raid on the compounds and property of the kin of the murderer. In this raid any members of the local group might join. The compounds of the murderer's family were burnt to the ground, their yams were uprooted, and their palms cut down.2 All property found might be appropriated, but in some communities it was taboo for the patrilineal relatives of the murdered man to keep any of the raided property, on the ground that this would be 'eating blood-money'. But relatives in the female line might do so, as their Ala was not concerned with the death of men in other local groups."	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence for1917	zgarfield	Case	Bena	"""We reached Pavaga at midday on July 15, 1898, after a forced march of thirteen hours. We concealed ourselves in thick bush and disguised ourselves as Wahehe.. At 5 p.m. the Jumbe (Kisogrewe) came in with three of Mkwawa's 'boys' who had been captured. I learned from them that he intended going to Makubuta. Also that he carried a Model 71 rifle of which the muzzle had cracked a few days previously, a mishap which had greatly upset him, and his companion had a sporting rifle. I sent off the ombasha to Makibuta with five askaris and five Wahehe, and myself stayed where I was with the rest of the party.. On July 16, 1898, the wife of Mkawa's companion was caught about 4 a.m. She said Mkwawa had gone from the Ruaha to the southern part of Pavaga, whence he wanted to get back to the Uzungwa Mountains. She herself had run away and wandered about the whole night. At midday I received information that Mkwawa had stolen some maize and a sheep. I immediately set off in pursuit. Only the Wahehe could discern the trail, which led into the bush in a westerly direction, and about 5 p.m. even they lost it and were unable to pick it up again.. On the 18th the ombasha returned. On the 19th we went back along the left bank of the Ruaha towards Iringa to the spot where we had lost the trail on the 16th. From there we went through the bush to Humbwe. I reached it at midday with the ombasha, two askaris and the Hehe Mzagira Mtaki. We halted to wait for our safari to catch us up. Suddenly we saw a naked boy of about fifteen years coming towards us. He bolted the moment he noticed us, but was presently captured. After some vigorous persuasion he admitted that he was Mkwawa's fourth servant and had run away that morning. Mkwawa lay three hours away very sick and spitting blood. The previous evening he had shot his companion. We set off immediately. When we had been marching about half an hour, we heard a shot in a south-westerly direction. [p. 421] By 2 p.m., according to the boy's statements, we were very close to Mkwawa. I then decided we must leave our packs and take off our shoes. I climbed a tree to take stock of the place. Walking without shoes was extremely painful, for the ground was very stony. We saw smoke rising a little way off. We had to wriggle along on our bellies for some 200 metres. Then we could approach no nearer without being heard. About twenty paces in front of us we saw two prostrate figures, apparently sleeping. The Jumbe pointed out one of them as Mkwawa. As the bush was very dense in the immediate vicinity and one bound would have sufficed to enable Mkwawa to escape from under our very noses, as he had so often succeeded in doing before, we fired on him. Our shots were unnecessary; Mkwawa had himself put an end to his life. Rigidity had not yet set in and he had killed himself with the shot which we had heard."""	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for1917	syme	Case	Bena	"""We reached Pavaga at midday on July 15, 1898, after a forced march of thirteen hours. We concealed ourselves in thick bush and disguised ourselves as Wahehe.. At 5 p.m. the Jumbe (Kisogrewe) came in with three of Mkwawa's 'boys' who had been captured. I learned from them that he intended going to Makubuta. Also that he carried a Model 71 rifle of which the muzzle had cracked a few days previously, a mishap which had greatly upset him, and his companion had a sporting rifle. I sent off the ombasha to Makibuta with five askaris and five Wahehe, and myself stayed where I was with the rest of the party.. On July 16, 1898, the wife of Mkawa's companion was caught about 4 a.m. She said Mkwawa had gone from the Ruaha to the southern part of Pavaga, whence he wanted to get back to the Uzungwa Mountains. She herself had run away and wandered about the whole night. At midday I received information that Mkwawa had stolen some maize and a sheep. I immediately set off in pursuit. Only the Wahehe could discern the trail, which led into the bush in a westerly direction, and about 5 p.m. even they lost it and were unable to pick it up again.. On the 18th the ombasha returned. On the 19th we went back along the left bank of the Ruaha towards Iringa to the spot where we had lost the trail on the 16th. From there we went through the bush to Humbwe. I reached it at midday with the ombasha, two askaris and the Hehe Mzagira Mtaki. We halted to wait for our safari to catch us up. Suddenly we saw a naked boy of about fifteen years coming towards us. He bolted the moment he noticed us, but was presently captured. After some vigorous persuasion he admitted that he was Mkwawa's fourth servant and had run away that morning. Mkwawa lay three hours away very sick and spitting blood. The previous evening he had shot his companion. We set off immediately. When we had been marching about half an hour, we heard a shot in a south-westerly direction. [p. 421] By 2 p.m., according to the boy's statements, we were very close to Mkwawa. I then decided we must leave our packs and take off our shoes. I climbed a tree to take stock of the place. Walking without shoes was extremely painful, for the ground was very stony. We saw smoke rising a little way off. We had to wriggle along on our bellies for some 200 metres. Then we could approach no nearer without being heard. About twenty paces in front of us we saw two prostrate figures, apparently sleeping. The Jumbe pointed out one of them as Mkwawa. As the bush was very dense in the immediate vicinity and one bound would have sufficed to enable Mkwawa to escape from under our very noses, as he had so often succeeded in doing before, we fired on him. Our shots were unnecessary; Mkwawa had himself put an end to his life. Rigidity had not yet set in and he had killed himself with the shot which we had heard."""	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for396	zgarfield	Case	Malekula	"A widow is usually taken by her husband's younger brother or by her husband's sister's son. Whether such a remarriage is compulsory, or how far the man can evade his responsibilities towards the widow, or the woman can refuse to enter into the new union, is not recorded. Sometimes a woman will kill herself on her husband's death, as did Vwitar Melmel of Vanarp, who thrust arrows into herself and died of the wounds, after the death of her husband Tolili of Lwag; but this does not seem to be a recognized practice."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence396	syme	Case	Malekula	"A widow is usually taken by her husband's younger brother or by her husband's sister's son. Whether such a remarriage is compulsory, or how far the man can evade his responsibilities towards the widow, or the woman can refuse to enter into the new union, is not recorded. Sometimes a woman will kill herself on her husband's death, as did Vwitar Melmel of Vanarp, who thrust arrows into herself and died of the wounds, after the death of her husband Tolili of Lwag; but this does not seem to be a recognized practice."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence397	zgarfield	Case	Malekula	"A young woman, very recently married, was left living temporarily alone by her husband's departure for a migrant labor job. One evening she invited two women to eat with her. They arrived at her house at dusk and waited while the hostess filled the lamp preparatory to lighting it. But because she mistakenly filled it with white alcohol instead of kerosene, the lamp blazed up when she lit it and burnt the two guests, one quite seriously. Talk began against the perpetrator, especially when it turned out that the more seriously burnt woman would have to be sent to Santo for treatment. In response to the social talk against her, the young woman tried to kill herself by jumping off the cliff over the beach. The jump did not kill her, although it did break both her legs. In her determination, she then dragged herself to the sea to drown, but was rescued before she succeeded in this second try. Because of her injuries, she was sent to Santo on the same boat with the victim of the lamp accident and the young woman's wish to kill herself apparently dissipated when the burned guest and she herself recovered."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence397	syme	Case	Malekula	"A young woman, very recently married, was left living temporarily alone by her husband's departure for a migrant labor job. One evening she invited two women to eat with her. They arrived at her house at dusk and waited while the hostess filled the lamp preparatory to lighting it. But because she mistakenly filled it with white alcohol instead of kerosene, the lamp blazed up when she lit it and burnt the two guests, one quite seriously. Talk began against the perpetrator, especially when it turned out that the more seriously burnt woman would have to be sent to Santo for treatment. In response to the social talk against her, the young woman tried to kill herself by jumping off the cliff over the beach. The jump did not kill her, although it did break both her legs. In her determination, she then dragged herself to the sea to drown, but was rescued before she succeeded in this second try. Because of her injuries, she was sent to Santo on the same boat with the victim of the lamp accident and the young woman's wish to kill herself apparently dissipated when the burned guest and she herself recovered."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for1432	zgarfield	Cultural model	Greeks	"The definitive loss of the soul to the Devil is the basis of the appearance of , the bodies of dead men and women which return from the grave in a hideous distended form often to terrify members of their own family. They are persons whose lives were corrupted in sin, committed suicide, drowned or were unbaptized; or persons whose bodies were not guarded by their kinsmen in the period between death and burial, or whose bodies, although guarded, were leaped over by a cat. In these various ways, and particularly in the first, the soul is lost to the Devil. Instead of departing through the mouth (as some imagine it in the form of a small bird) and rising to God, it passes through the anus to the Devil. And since the body and soul, whatever the internal tension between them, form a unity, the body also falls into the power of the Devil, remains undissolved in the earth, and possessed by his spirit emerges from its grave to mock at the sacred institutions of family life by attacking or terrifying those to whom it owed, in life, the greatest obligations."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence1432	syme	Cultural model	Greeks	"The definitive loss of the soul to the Devil is the basis of the appearance of , the bodies of dead men and women which return from the grave in a hideous distended form often to terrify members of their own family. They are persons whose lives were corrupted in sin, committed suicide, drowned or were unbaptized; or persons whose bodies were not guarded by their kinsmen in the period between death and burial, or whose bodies, although guarded, were leaped over by a cat. In these various ways, and particularly in the first, the soul is lost to the Devil. Instead of departing through the mouth (as some imagine it in the form of a small bird) and rising to God, it passes through the anus to the Devil. And since the body and soul, whatever the internal tension between them, form a unity, the body also falls into the power of the Devil, remains undissolved in the earth, and possessed by his spirit emerges from its grave to mock at the sacred institutions of family life by attacking or terrifying those to whom it owed, in life, the greatest obligations."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence1433	zgarfield	Case	Greeks	"On 6 April the Germans invaded Yugoslavia and Greece. By the swift and efficient manoeuvre of their forces against static defences the battle was virtually decided in the first three days. There was no contact between Greek and Yugoslav forces. In Greece itself no attempt was made to draw back Greek divisions from eastern Macedonia and Thrace, or from the main concentration of the Greek army still facing the Italians in Albania, to form a coherent front south of Salonika with the Anglo-Greek force, from which they were, in fact, almost immediately separated. Lack of transport and air cover would have made such moves hazardous in any case. General Papagos, the Greek Commander-in-Chief, claimed that the only effect of such withdrawals would have been to destroy morale, if not the units themselves. Metaxas might have done it, he said, I cannot. Since the death of Metaxas and the certainty of an overwhelming German attack the resolve of a number of senior officers and Ministers had begun to falter. Shortly before his death, in discussing with a foreigner the will of the Greek people to resist, Metaxas had said that after all for the Greek Orthodox believers death was only an episode. But now lacking the moral example of his leadership many in positions of responsibility began to question whether further resistance was not futile and self-destructive. On 20 April, despite specific orders to fight on, General Tsolakoglou surrendered the forces on the Epirus front. Already Koryzis who had succeeded Metaxas as Premier had committed suicide two days earlier, overcome by the implications of the impending collapse and the discovery of defeatism in his cabinet. On 21 April King George and General Wavell agreed to the evacuation of the British forces, the greater part of which with the help of the navy and a succession of moonless nights were taken off before the end of the month. With them went the King and the new Prime Minister Tsoudheros. By the end of May when Crete had been captured Hitler's arrangement of the Balkans had been completed. In Greece, apart from a Bulgarian occupation of western Thrace and German control of Athens, Salonika, Crete, Page: 173 and the Turkish frontier zone, the administration of the country was left to the Italians. Tsolakoglou was rewarded for his treason by the honour of becoming the first Prime Minister of occupied Greece."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for1433	syme	Case	Greeks	"On 6 April the Germans invaded Yugoslavia and Greece. By the swift and efficient manoeuvre of their forces against static defences the battle was virtually decided in the first three days. There was no contact between Greek and Yugoslav forces. In Greece itself no attempt was made to draw back Greek divisions from eastern Macedonia and Thrace, or from the main concentration of the Greek army still facing the Italians in Albania, to form a coherent front south of Salonika with the Anglo-Greek force, from which they were, in fact, almost immediately separated. Lack of transport and air cover would have made such moves hazardous in any case. General Papagos, the Greek Commander-in-Chief, claimed that the only effect of such withdrawals would have been to destroy morale, if not the units themselves. Metaxas might have done it, he said, I cannot. Since the death of Metaxas and the certainty of an overwhelming German attack the resolve of a number of senior officers and Ministers had begun to falter. Shortly before his death, in discussing with a foreigner the will of the Greek people to resist, Metaxas had said that after all for the Greek Orthodox believers death was only an episode. But now lacking the moral example of his leadership many in positions of responsibility began to question whether further resistance was not futile and self-destructive. On 20 April, despite specific orders to fight on, General Tsolakoglou surrendered the forces on the Epirus front. Already Koryzis who had succeeded Metaxas as Premier had committed suicide two days earlier, overcome by the implications of the impending collapse and the discovery of defeatism in his cabinet. On 21 April King George and General Wavell agreed to the evacuation of the British forces, the greater part of which with the help of the navy and a succession of moonless nights were taken off before the end of the month. With them went the King and the new Prime Minister Tsoudheros. By the end of May when Crete had been captured Hitler's arrangement of the Balkans had been completed. In Greece, apart from a Bulgarian occupation of western Thrace and German control of Athens, Salonika, Crete, Page: 173 and the Turkish frontier zone, the administration of the country was left to the Italians. Tsolakoglou was rewarded for his treason by the honour of becoming the first Prime Minister of occupied Greece."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for1434	zgarfield	Cultural model	Greeks	"4 In Crete, I was told (1981) that suicide was wrong even for a person in immense pain; one should struggle up to the appointed end of one's life."	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence1434	syme	Cultural model	Greeks	"4 In Crete, I was told (1981) that suicide was wrong even for a person in immense pain; one should struggle up to the appointed end of one's life."	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence1435	zgarfield	Case	Greeks	"His local opponent, Stelios, had one trump card. He was the only major candidate (in village terms) whose party did not have a single Psiliot on its slate. Tension between the two villages had been running high in the period immediately before the election, vastly exacerbated by the discovery of the body of a Glendiot shepherd boylater shown to have committed suicideclose to Psiliot territory. Some even thought that opponents of the Psiliot candidates might have deliberately arranged for the boy's murder, in order to harness Glendiot anger to their own purposes. While that rumor hardly gained any currency, I mention it as an indication of the deep suspicion that divided the villages, and undoubtedly influenced the course of the campaign."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence1435	syme	Case	Greeks	"His local opponent, Stelios, had one trump card. He was the only major candidate (in village terms) whose party did not have a single Psiliot on its slate. Tension between the two villages had been running high in the period immediately before the election, vastly exacerbated by the discovery of the body of a Glendiot shepherd boylater shown to have committed suicideclose to Psiliot territory. Some even thought that opponents of the Psiliot candidates might have deliberately arranged for the boy's murder, in order to harness Glendiot anger to their own purposes. While that rumor hardly gained any currency, I mention it as an indication of the deep suspicion that divided the villages, and undoubtedly influenced the course of the campaign."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence1867	zgarfield	Cultural model	Bagisu	"(3) It is relevant to note that suicide by hanging carries the implication of self-sacrifice, for traditionally animals were sacrificed without bloodshed, by strangulation or stunning."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence1867	syme	Cultural model	Bagisu	"(3) It is relevant to note that suicide by hanging carries the implication of self-sacrifice, for traditionally animals were sacrificed without bloodshed, by strangulation or stunning."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence1055	zgarfield	Case	Ovimbundu	"CASUNGU (c. 1840April 1846), from Ngumbe, son of Cikulupi. His reign was cut short, for he was expelled, in consequence of which he committed suicide by stabbing himself among the rock redoubts of Kasanje, the capital of the sub-chiefdom to which he had fled. His death was recorded by a traveller in a letter to the Governor, dated November 1847: In April of the past year the King Quiapungo of Huambo died, leaving as his successor, his nephew Capoco.17"	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	Evidence for1055	syme	Case	Ovimbundu	"CASUNGU (c. 1840April 1846), from Ngumbe, son of Cikulupi. His reign was cut short, for he was expelled, in consequence of which he committed suicide by stabbing himself among the rock redoubts of Kasanje, the capital of the sub-chiefdom to which he had fled. His death was recorded by a traveller in a letter to the Governor, dated November 1847: In April of the past year the King Quiapungo of Huambo died, leaving as his successor, his nephew Capoco.17"	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for995	zgarfield	Cultural model	Bena	"M.S.: I heard some time ago that if one man kills another, the killer sometimes hangs himself. Is that true? What would the killer do that for? INFORMANT: It is true, and he is afraid of the government. M.S.: Why? INFORMANT: He is afraid of both the European government and of the native government before the Europeans came. If a man killed another one, the headman would tie him with rope. The rope would be very tight and it would hurt very much. They would put water on the rope so that it tightened and it was very painful. Because of that pain people were afraid of being tied. M.S.: So it was a matter of being tied? INFORMANT: No, they were also afraid of being killed by the baraza or being put in prison for as long as two or three years. If you kill your enemy, then you kill yourself, the whole matter is ended and there's no further affair. [shauri]. The fear of retaliation is by no means limited to the government. A very strong drive exists to end quarrels between individuals and to forget them. This drive is not limited to the quarrelers, but is shared by those around them. The importance of forgiving a person is as great as his repenting his wrong, and an unforgiving individual will be held in less esteem than a confessed wrongdoer. The explicit reason for this is that if forgiveness is not forthcoming, the trouble will never end and more harm will result. Put in the terms of this discussion, a failure to forswear retaliation is as great (or greater) a cause for concern as the thing that precipitated the desire for retaliation. People who will not forgive and forget show themselves to be threats not only to those with whom they are currently at odds but to everyone else, for it is impossible to know when they might take offense and they have demonstrated that they will not give up their anger."	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence for995	syme	Cultural model	Bena	"M.S.: I heard some time ago that if one man kills another, the killer sometimes hangs himself. Is that true? What would the killer do that for? INFORMANT: It is true, and he is afraid of the government. M.S.: Why? INFORMANT: He is afraid of both the European government and of the native government before the Europeans came. If a man killed another one, the headman would tie him with rope. The rope would be very tight and it would hurt very much. They would put water on the rope so that it tightened and it was very painful. Because of that pain people were afraid of being tied. M.S.: So it was a matter of being tied? INFORMANT: No, they were also afraid of being killed by the baraza or being put in prison for as long as two or three years. If you kill your enemy, then you kill yourself, the whole matter is ended and there's no further affair. [shauri]. The fear of retaliation is by no means limited to the government. A very strong drive exists to end quarrels between individuals and to forget them. This drive is not limited to the quarrelers, but is shared by those around them. The importance of forgiving a person is as great as his repenting his wrong, and an unforgiving individual will be held in less esteem than a confessed wrongdoer. The explicit reason for this is that if forgiveness is not forthcoming, the trouble will never end and more harm will result. Put in the terms of this discussion, a failure to forswear retaliation is as great (or greater) a cause for concern as the thing that precipitated the desire for retaliation. People who will not forgive and forget show themselves to be threats not only to those with whom they are currently at odds but to everyone else, for it is impossible to know when they might take offense and they have demonstrated that they will not give up their anger."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence for996	zgarfield	Cultural model	Bena	"5 Accused thieves, adulterers, would-be suicides, those accused of fighting, and troublesome psychotics still have their hands tied. The cry Bring rope is often the first sign of serious trouble in the village. However, at least at present, the tying is symbolic rather than restraining. For example, an adulterous pair were tied together for 36 hours with the man's right hand loosely bound to the woman's left; each was allowed one free hand."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence996	syme	Cultural model	Bena	"5 Accused thieves, adulterers, would-be suicides, those accused of fighting, and troublesome psychotics still have their hands tied. The cry Bring rope is often the first sign of serious trouble in the village. However, at least at present, the tying is symbolic rather than restraining. For example, an adulterous pair were tied together for 36 hours with the man's right hand loosely bound to the woman's left; each was allowed one free hand."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence502	zgarfield	Case	Shipibo	"Sometimes old people who have perhaps lost their spouses and who are tired of life retire to their mosquito netting and refuse food or drink until they expire. In one case I witnessed, an old man systematically sold all his belongings to help defray the funeral expenses his sons would incur."	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	Evidence for	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence for	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence502	syme	Case	Shipibo	"Sometimes old people who have perhaps lost their spouses and who are tired of life retire to their mosquito netting and refuse food or drink until they expire. In one case I witnessed, an old man systematically sold all his belongings to help defray the funeral expenses his sons would incur."	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	Evidence against	Evidence for	No evidence	Evidence against	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence	No evidence